URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/bachelor-of-business-administration-bachelor-of-business-administration-full-time-part-time-9975bba/
Title: Bachelor of Business Administration
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Bachelor of Business Administration
Bachelor of Business Administration Full-time/Part-time School of Business + Media
## Overview
The Bachelor of Business Administration program offers both full-time and part-time options. It's designed for students who have completed or plan to complete specific BCIT diplomas, aiming to deepen their knowledge of advanced business theories and skills. Apply today to pursue the BBA and enhance your skills for a more diverse career.
Note: The full-time September 2026 intake is now closed for new applications. Applications for the full-time September 2027 intake will be accepted starting January 4, 2027.
Delivery: blended and in person options. See details .
The BCIT Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree provides students the opportunity to enhance the skills developed in their diploma programs. Students broaden their knowledge in the BBA with courses that focus on critical and strategic thinking skills. This is achieved through a group of core of upper level business and general education courses.
With the business world constantly changing and becoming more complex, the BBA creates well rounded graduates who are able to look at an organization’s problems through different perspectives. Increase your opportunities of advancement in your current organization with the skills learned in the program.
### About the program
- Full-time degree can be completed within 8 to 12 months
- Part-time degree completed course-by-course
- Designed to build directly on the diplomas offered by the School of Business
- Must have a BCIT credential and meet entrance requirements
- Starting in the fall of 2021, students will have the ability to specialize within the BBA through the introduction of option core courses .
### Who should apply for the Bachelor of Business Administration?
- BCIT School of Business diploma* graduates
- Students who want to enhance their skills
- Those interested in critical and strategic thinking
- Want richer career paths
- Plan to attain a graduate degree in the future
* For the list of eligible diploma, bridging programs, and entrance requirements, please visit the Entrance Requirements page.
### What grads can do?
Our BBA grads have many options when they finish school. They may start pursue a variety of career options, attend grad school or even work abroad.
To learn more about these opportunities for graduates please visit our Graduating and Jobs Page .
### International study
BCIT offers a number of international study opportunities that helps students gain a global perspective of the economy, culture, government, and everyday life of the country they study in. You could participate in a summer field school or complete an international degree. Learn more about studying abroad .
### Specializations and joint programs
Students interested in specializing in particular fields may be able to apply certain courses and programs towards the elective component of the BBA. In all cases, specializations and joint programs are subject to the BBA’s residency and course requirements. Students considering this option must receive prior approval from the BBA program. For current offerings, see the Program Details page.
## Entrance Requirements
The BBA is a degree program for students who are planning to complete, or have completed, specific BCIT diplomas, and who wish to further their education.
Successful candidates must meet the program’s minimum entrance requirements, and should apply to the BCIT BBA program after completing or when nearing completion of one of the BCIT School of Business diploma programs below.
### Application processing
Full-time
Applications are accepted:
- First round: January 2nd* to January 31st*
- Second round: February 1st* to March 31st*
This program has multiple application deadlines and may fill after each deadline date.
Part-time
Applications are accepted throughout the year with intake options available during the following periods:
Intake | Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
Winter (January) | February 1st* | Domestic students: January 2nd* International students: November 1st*
Spring/Summer (April) | May 1st* | Domestic students: April 1st* International students: February 1st*
Fall (September) | October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intakes may fill before the deadline. If you are currently registered in a course or planning to start, submit your application early to secure your spot in the program.
### Entrance requirements
Notice to applicants: Effective for applicants to the January 2027 intake and later, Macroeconomics will be required as one of the core courses to satisfy the entrance requirements.
If you meet the minimum entrance requirements listed below, please apply to the program for either full-time or part-time.
Full-time
Admission is ranked based on a student's overall and core course grades.
Applicants who are currently enrolled in the final term of their BCIT diploma must be on track to complete their diploma by May. Applicants who are currently enrolled in a full-time BCIT diploma and are applying for the full-time degree may be conditionally accepted pending successful completion of their diploma and any applicable bridging courses.
Part-time
This program has a two-step admission process. Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains. Conditional acceptance into part-time is not granted.
Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements
- Post-secondary education: One of the following BCIT Business Diplomas with a minimum overall average of 70%: Accounting Business Administration (General Option) * Business Administration (Global Studies Option) * Business Administration (Human Resources Option) * Business Administration (Management Option) * Business Administration (Marketing Option) * Business Information Technology Management (Artificial Intelligence Management Option) Business Information Technology Management (Enterprise Systems Management Option) Business Management Business Management (Advanced Placement - Degree/Diploma Entry) Business Management, Advanced Diploma Finance Financial Planning General Insurance and Risk Management Global Supply Chain Management Human Resource Management (Advanced Placement - Degree/Diploma Entry) Marketing Management (Entrepreneurship Option) Marketing Management (Digital Marketing and Brand Strategy Option) Marketing Management (Professional Real Estate Option) Marketing Management (Professional Sales Option) Marketing Management (Tourism Marketing and Sales Option) Operations & Management Engineering Strategic Human Resources Management *Programs listed with an asterisk are only available through part-time.
- The following BCIT diploma programs are acceptable for admission to the BBA program with a minimum of 70% in an approved diploma , completion of outstanding core courses with minimum requirements listed below, and any applicable bridging courses. The BBA Bridging Courses [PDF] outlines the core courses equivalencies and bridging requirements. Please contact bba@bcit.ca to confirm which bridging courses are required. Automotive Services Technician and Operations Diploma Automotive Services Technician and Operations (Ford ASSET Option) Diploma Aviation Management and Operations Diploma Broadcast and Online Journalism Diploma Computer Information Technology Diploma Digital Design and Development Diploma Food Processing, Safety, and Quality Diploma Graphic Communications Diploma Occupational Health and Safety Diploma Radio Arts and Entertainment Diploma Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma Television and Video Production Diploma
- Core courses: minimum combined average of 70% across the following five courses, with no marks below 65%: Business Communications 2 Accounting For Management (or Accounting 2) Essentials of Marketing Microeconomics Statistics
- Submit the Online Assessment Form You will be asked to rank your option choices as part of the online assessment. You will be placed into an option at the discretion on the department and will be notified of your option upon acceptance.
Step 2: Department Assessment
Complete applications will be reviewed and assessed by the program area. Applications will not be considered complete until the Online Assessment Form has been submitted.
### If you do not meet the entrance requirements
If you have completed an eligible diploma but do not otherwise meet the entrance requirements, submit the Online Assessment Form before applying to the BBA program.
If you do not have an eligible diploma, please email bba@bcit.ca directly to determine if you may qualify for admission based on non-BCIT credentials and work experience.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program currently meets the PGWP eligibility requirements based on study program - graduates with a bachelor’s degree and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP. There are no field of study requirements (CIP) for graduates with a bachelor’s degree.
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
Full-time: September each year
Part-time: January, April, and September
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Costs & Supplies
### Bring your own device
Students are required to have their own laptop. Please refer to the Bring Your Own Device Specifications [PDF] for requirements.
Laptop costs vary depending on the configuration chosen, but will likely range from approximately $1,000 to $2,000.
### Tuition fees
Full-time Studies
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
Flexible Learning
Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) tuition is charged on a course-by-course basis. Please see the Flexible Learning Tuition & Fees page for more information on domestic and international tuitions.
### Books & supplies
Full-time: $1100 (General estimated cost, subject to change)
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Full-time option
As a full-time student, you’ll be immersed in a highly structured and demanding environment for the duration of the program. All full-time courses are scheduled at the Burnaby campus. The full-time program begins in September and ends in April, with any outstanding electives to be completed at your own pace.
### Full-time format
Fall Term (Sep – Dec) | Winter Term (Jan – Apr) | Summer Term (May – Aug)
4 required core business courses 1 option core course 1 or more general education elective courses (optional) | 3 required core business courses 2 option core courses 1 or more general education elective courses (optional) | Complete remaining general education electives (if necessary)
You’ll be working toward completion of your BBA degree through lectures, hands-on labs, and integrated e-learning, working independently and in teams, building knowledge through presentations and research.
You’ll be one of 100 students accepted into the program. Like yourself, everyone will have completed a BCIT business diploma program, and many will have work experience. Students come from many disciplines and fields of study, leading to a rich, dynamic, and varied learning environment.
Your schedule will be busy, with 15 in-class hours per week, plus homework. In the computer labs, you’ll have your own computer workstation to complete all assignments. You’ll have regular, usually weekly, class assignments to complete for most courses, so it’s important to manage your time well and perform consistently throughout the school year.
### Part-time option
Once accepted into the BBA part-time program, you’ll register and complete classes on a course-by-course basis. This option usually allows students to complete the program in 18-36 months while working. Course information and availability are listed below.
Part-time students are responsible for preparing a suitable schedule for each term. Course offerings vary from term to term and are scheduled at the Burnaby campus. BCIT part-time courses operate on a first-come, first-served basis, and capacity is limited. Please refer to the BCIT Flexible Learning course finder for term-specific information.
### Former BBA program matrix
The BBA program matrix has changed effective for the Fall 2021 term. Students who began the program prior to Fall 2021 can refer to the BBA Spring 2021 Program Matrix [PDF] for course equivalencies.
### Program matrix
Check current availability of courses for this program.
1. Required core business courses (25.5 credits): | Credits
BABI 8800 | Data and Decisions This course emphasizes analytical techniques and concepts that results in broadly applicable solutions to business problems. The course introduces decision making under uncertainty from a computational perspective and provides an overview of the necessary tools for building autonomous and decision-support systems. Following an introduction to probabilistic models and decision theory, we will cover computational methods for solving decision problems with model uncertainty and imperfect state information. Students will develop data-driven predictive models when faced with uncertainty in business. Presents an advanced course in the application of statistical methods to business problems. Statistics provide techniques for interpreting data, permitting managers to use information to answer larger questions. We will be focusing on topics such as Regression, Time Series Analysis, and Forecasting. Extensive lab work using computer software will lead to theoretical solutions. Students will interpret and apply these solutions as a guide to practical management action. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 4.0
BSYS 5100 | AI in the Organization: Strategy, ethics, and practice ​This course covers AI foundations through an organizational lens. Students build core knowledge of how AI systems work and extend it to analyze, evaluate, and make decisions about AI adoption, governance, and impact in business contexts. Students leave prepared to participate meaningfully in organizational AI decisions.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
BUSA 7500 | Applied Capital and Financial Markets This course provides students with deep practical knowledge of financial markets and institutions. It will develop understanding and appreciation of the direct linkages between theoretical concepts and their real-world applications employed by managers. Students will learn about interest rates, asymmetric information, foreign currencies, hedging financial risks and a range of financial instruments that will prepare them to interact with financial institutions and participate in financial markets. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 4.0
BUSA 7900 | Applied Strategic Management - Design, Risks and Ethics This integrative course is designed to dramatically improve the quality of student decision-making in a time and risk sensitive global environment. Enables students to utilize the principles of strategic management enhanced by contemporary new analytical concepts and ethical constructs. Simulates real-world decisions via team case studies and the application of management decision support systems while drawing upon relevant current business issues to help students understand the real world challenges that business executives confront in managing sustainable businesses. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 4.0
ECON 8550 | Managerial Economics ​This course examines the use of economics, decision theory and business problems. Uses case studies to accounting/finance tools by managers facing various problems. The course will consider how the internal and external operating environment impacts a manager's resource allocation decisions. Prerequisite(s): 50% in OPMT 7701 course outline | 4.0
OPMT 7701 | Calculus for Management Introduces calculus course to business students. Topics reviewed are integration, differentiation and applications of calculus to business problems. The students apply calculus through problem sets to gain skills in the various techniques. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 4.0
ORGB 8700 | Implementing Organizational Change—Stakeholders, Timing and Evaluation This course extends analysis of human behaviour in the organization toward development and refinement of models in the decision-making process. The extended analysis will encompass the development of organizations toward open systems capable of effective responses to strategic change. Students learn how to apply behavioural models in implementing strategic change. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BUSA 7800 or 50% in BUSA 7900 course outline | 4.0
2. Option core courses (9.0 credits): | Credits
Complete one of the following options. Option 1 – Global Business
BSUS 7100 | Ecological Economics: Social and Environmental Policy This course introduces students to the field of ecological economics by providing a theoretical grounding in first principles and exploring efficiency in the distribution of resources in society. The course covers the philosophical and theoretical basis of both neo-classical and ecological economics—emphasizing how economic systems interact with social and environmental systems. The course focuses on how to reduce pressure on nature and increase human wellbeing in economically viable ways with reference to case studies that provide opportunities to examine economic principles and their application to environmental, social, and resource-use issues. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
BUSA 8100 | Cross-Cultural Management ​This course will equip students with the skills and knowledge needed to succeed in a globalised and multicultural world; it explores various frameworks and practical techniques for cross-cultural and intercultural management. The course exposes students to issues and problems that typically arise in international business when managers have to deal with culturally determined differences in values, attitudes and behaviors. The course will assist students in developing intercultural competence, leadership, and negotiation skills to successfully solve problems and gain opportunities in a multicultural environment. Students will discover their own cultural identity and learn to identify cultural aspects of verbal and nonverbal behavior of people from different cultures. Students learn to recognize cultural differences that create challenging management situations. Specific topics include: Foundations of culture and cultural frameworks, Motivation, leadership and decision making across cultures, Negotiation and conflict resolution in global business settings, Organizational culture, Leading multicultural teams and culturally diverse organizations. Students apply the acquired knowledge and gain relevant skills during hands-on activities such as scenario-based discussions and case studies. Graduates of this course will be better prepared to work in multicultural companies, manage diverse teams, and navigate the complexities of the international business landscape. Additionally, they will be better positioned to promote diversity and inclusion with organisations.​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
GTTM 7000 | International Management and Cross-Cultural Negotiation This course provides students with an understanding of international management and cross-cultural negotiation. International Management looks at management and execution of different approaches to market entry, global sourcing, the impact of technological advances on globalization, globalization of finance, and the needs of Subject Matter Experts (SME) wishing to enter international markets. Cross cultural negotiation looks at how organizations involved in international business operate and negotiate in foreign environments. Specific focus will be placed on the impact of international context, cultural background of the parties involved and the individual negotiating/business styles of representatives of different countries and types of organizations. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
or
Option 2 – Marketing Brand Management and Consumer Insights
BSUS 7200 | Social Purpose Business: Uniting Strategy, Communications, and Impact In response to increasing consumer awareness, pressure from investors, climate change, and employees' desire to benefit people and the planet, businesses must consider not only their financial, but also their social and environmental impacts. Whether through corporate social responsibility, social purpose, or social entrepreneurship, businesses are looking to build positive social and environmental returns into their business models by promoting social equity and operating within planetary boundaries—to make money doing good. This course introduces the growing field of social purpose business and the role of marketing professionals in driving change. Following the framework provided by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), this course demonstrates how companies can meaningfully align their strategy and operations with the 17 SDGs and effectively communicate this alignment to all stakeholders (employees, investors, customers, communities, governments, regulators, NGO partners, etc.). Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
MKTG 7100 | Brand Strategy in the Digital Age At the core of every great business is a great brand. In this course, students will learn how to break down and analyze the elements of a great brand and then utilize the tools to build them. Students will learn how to position and brand products and services in order to prevent them from being turned into commodities, with the understanding that all marketing communications campaigns serve the larger mission of developing a brand. Brand managers face many challenges including how to use brand architecture to develop strategic direction, and how to develop value propositions that resonate with key audiences. The complexity of these challenges has been exacerbated through the digitization of consumer communication. The goal of this course is to provide concepts, models, methods, and role models that will help address these challenges and position brand managers to keep pace with rapidly advancing technology. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
MKTG 8100 | Consumer Insights At the core of developing great brand strategies is understanding the consumers for whom they are designed. Consumer Insights is a foundational course for all branding and marketing initiatives. In this course, students will learn the art of analyzing how consumers engage with brands, ideas, and experiences. Learning will focus on understanding consumer mindsets and motivations in order to build and nurture sustainable brand relationships. Inputs for this learning will come from the fields of economics, psychology, sociology, ethnography, and anthropology. Students will gain proficiency with the building blocks core to product and service design, consumer marketing, and brand communications. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
or
Option 3 – Business Intelligence and Value Management
BABI 7800 | Power BI and Data Analytics ​This course utilizes Excel's PowerPivot and PowerBI functionality working on skills to model different types of data and how the data is synthesized into management information. In addition to these skills, this course will dive into the issues related to big data and analyze big data so information can be integrated into the strategic decision-making process by using data visualization tools. Students will be then able to build custom dashboards to answer management problems. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
BABI 8900 | Performance Metrics and Value Management ​This course is designed to improve student ability to apply a balanced scorecard approach to increase organizational performance. Students will identify leading and lagging key performance indicators (KPIs) that are commonly measured and contribute to a firm's strategic success. This course moves beyond theory to build on data modelling and business intelligence skills to build and implement a performance management dashboard using Excel & Power BI. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BABI 7800 or 50% in OPMT 7750 course outline | 3.0
BSUS 7400 | Life Cycle Assessment for Business ​Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a method used to calculate climate change and other environmental impacts from a product life cycle perspective (i.e. from cradle-to-grave, or from raw material extraction to product manufacturing, use and final disposal). This course focuses on building familiarity with the standards and applications of the LCA method through case studies. Students will also learn how to plan and conduct simple LCA studies, collaborate effectively with other professionals, and speak knowledgeably as advocates of best-practice approaches. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
3. General Education component (27.0 credits): | Credits
All students will be required to achieve these credits: 3.0 credits - English Literature or Composition 3.0 credits - Natural Science 6.0 credits - Social Science or Humanities 6.0 credits - Arts or Science 9.0 credits - Unspecified Select General Education courses from the list below, or contact the Program Administrator to determine whether other courses at BCIT or at another recognized post-secondary institution may be acceptable. All students will be required to achieve these credits in accordance with the BCIT BBA policy on General Education Requirements [PDF] . Categories for the below courses can be found on that PDF.
BCST 5010 | Visual Communication and Culture ​In a modern world where visual technologies increasingly facilitate communication and social interaction, visual literacy is vital. Much of our experience in looking is grounded in habit rather than analysis. Through cultural theory and concepts, this course explores how meaning is both created and transmitted in the visual world. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
BCST 5035 | Global Storyteller The focus of this course is to help students identify the elements of effective online storytelling using journalistic principles. Students will research stories which reflect the experience of studying in different cultures and learning through the BCIT International Field School model to help develop their news sense. The course will take students through the essentials of how to find a strong, focused news and information-based stories and how to effectively interview to support the focus of their stories. They will also learn how to communicate that story with written and visual elements online. Students will share their reflections on their experience with international learning and storytelling in different cultures through the creation of a travel blog. Prerequisite(s): Permission from the International Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
BSUS 5110 | Sustainable Business Strategy This course introduces students to sustainable business strategy, specifically how sustainability can be a strategic differentiator that can lead to improved environmental, social, and financial performance. The course covers best practices for purpose-driven organizations with an emphasis on strategic planning and developing the business case for sustainability. Students explore how business can drive systems-level change by operating within planetary boundaries and promoting social equity. Students learn how to communicate the competitive advantage of being a purpose-driven organization to influence management decision and stakeholders. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate, Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma, or Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
BSUS 5130 | Sustainable Business Leadership: Skills and Values Sustainable business leaders must be self-reflective, comfortable with uncertainty, open, flexible, and adaptable. As champions for business models and practices that promote social equity and respect planetary boundaries, sustainable business leaders must understand how worldviews shape the actions of business, government, and citizens. In this course, students examine social systems and reflect on the foundational values and skills necessary to navigate these systems and advocate for change. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate, Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma, or Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 4.0
BSUS 5140 | Earth Systems and Environmental Policy This course presents a broad overview of Earth systems, global change, and environmental policy to provide a foundation for further study in sustainable business. Using a nested circle framework for sustainable business, this course contextualizes economic structures within broader societal and environmental systems and impacts. Key topics include Earth and environmental systems, cycles, and processes; human interactions with the environment; global change; environmental management and policy; and the sustainable business landscape. Over the course of the term, students apply their knowledge and skills to assess the environmental impacts of a resource development project. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate, Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma, or Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 4.0
BSUS 5210 | Sustainable Business Models As the positive impact of sustainability on business performance is increasingly well established, organizations are moving beyond corporate social responsibility (CSR) to embed environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance in their strategy and operations. In this new reality, the business case for sustainability is clear; sustainability is a competitive advantage, improves risk management, encourages innovation, improves financial performance, and helps build employee engagement and customer loyalty. In this course, students explore options for structuring purpose-driven businesses (governance and necessary metrics) and the features of purpose-driven organizations (leadership, commitments, policies, reporting, and partnerships). Students have opportunities to compare the pros and cons of various sustainable business models. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate, Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma, or Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 4.0
BSUS 5220 | Circular Economy The Circular Economy fosters business innovation and sustainable well-being. It involves shifting from our take-make-waste linear economy to a circular one with closed loops that maximize the use and value of raw materials and products and employ renewable energy sources. A “strong” Circular Economy capable of operating within ecological limits embraces a service-based model of consumption – sharing, renting and recycling, instead of owning. Materials are not destroyed at end-of-life, but are used to make new products over and over again. In this course, students learn the principles and practices of a Circular Economy drawing from leading innovators in BC and around the world. Students undertake an individual consumption challenge and follow a step-by-step process to develop a Circular Business Strategy. Guest speakers share insights about the challenges and opportunities to advance circularity in their businesses and organizations. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate, Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma, or Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
BUSA 4500 | International Business Practices The course provides the opportunity to pursue studies of the international business practices in areas of interest, which include sustainability, human resources, management, marketing, organizational behavior, and financial management. It provides an overview of management and leadership skills in the international business context through a series of projects and case studies. This course is equivalent to a 3.0 credit course at the undergraduate level. Students may apply this course to the elective requirements of their degree program. This course may be taken as part of a field study, (https://www.bcit.ca/business/international/fieldschool.shtml) or exchange program, (https://www.bcit.ca/business/international/outgoing.shtml) for additional credits. In the case of exchange programs where transfer credits will be awarded, the student may take this course for additional credit as long as there are deliverables and learning outcomes in addition to those earned in the exchange program. This course can also allow the student to engage in applied research or field study where the student works with, and is supervised by, faculty and/or other researchers also engaged in a related research agenda or project. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance to the School of Business International Field School program. course outline | 3.0
BUSA 5028 | Social Return on Investment ​We often use Return on Investment and other financial measures to evaluate a business’s success, but what are other ways businesses can express their impact on economies and communities? Social Return on Investment (SROI) provides stakeholders with performance measurements that are not reflected on the balance sheet. Social enterprises use business as a mechanism to address social and environmental issues, positively impacting communities while also generating revenue. What are some of the common challenges that Social Impact Businesses encounter? How can incorporating SROI into your business model create a competitive advantage? How can you scale and expand your social impact? These are some of the questions that will be explored in this course. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
BUSA 7810 | Introduction to Business Management Strategies in Energy Over the past three decades the impact of the energy industry on the North American economy has dramatically increased as North American governments have implemented various levels of deregulation. This has resulted in extreme price volatility for both the individual consumers and business. The purpose of this course is to provide business students with a broad introductory overview of the economic impact of the energy industry on consumers and business in Canada as it has evolved since its deregulation in the 1980's. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
BUSA 7820 | Business Management Strategies - The Impact of Energy Costs on the Bottom Line Given the extent to which it permeates our daily lives, Canada’s energy based natural resources have come to dominate the economic, social and political agenda in Canadian business. This course is designed to provide students with the analytical foundation to design and implement business strategies which account for the growing impacts of energy costs on all aspects of Canadian Business. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
CINT 1210 | Basic Mandarin and Chinese Culture This three credit basic language and culture course is designed for students who have no Chinese background and who have never studied Mandarin before. By passing this course, students will develop four basic language skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing in Mandarin Chinese as well as to have basic knowledge in Chinese culture. The course will include communicative classroom activities and on-line practices to enable students to have a good command of the Chinese pronunciation system and basic grammar knowledge. At the end of the course, students will be able to conduct simple daily conversations and to read and write short sentences. This CINT1210 addresses practical needs in real-life situations. Each class is based on a few scenario(s) that contain the most commonly used expressions. In addition, the course covers many aspects of the Chinese culture. Verbal, non-verbal and multimedia materials will be employed to help enhance all four language skills. Prerequisite(s): Students who do not speak Mandarin and do not have previous knowledge of Chinese language. course outline | 3.0
CINT 2222 | Chinese Studies This three credit course is designed for students who have taken CINT1210, or who have Chinese language ability equivalent to elementary level. By passing this course, students will acquire certain knowledge in the Chinese culture, history and geography, while enhancing their language skills in Chinese Mandarin. The course will be delivered through communicative classroom activities and on-line practice. Verbal, non-verbal and multimedia materials will be employed to help improve students’ language proficiency. The course content is composed of two parts: Chinese culture study and Chinese language learning. Both focuses on practicality and functionality. For Chinese culture study, students will learn the Chinese history, geography, traditional custom and current affairs. For language acquisition, students will gain practical language skills, which they can use in real-life business and social settings of Chinese Mandarin. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CINT 1210 Students who have not completed CINT 1210 but have previous Chinese Language experience, please contact Eva Wong (Eva_Wong@bcit.ca) for registration approval. course outline | 3.0
COMM 7100 | Intercultural Communication Competency and Diversity Awareness for Professionals This course is an introduction to the dynamic forces which enhance effective communication between persons from various cultural backgrounds, primarily in a professional setting. By helping students to develop a truly international perspective, COMM 7100 encourages intercultural communication competency, otherwise known as ICC. Due to rapid globalization, ICC is not an option, but a necessity. Prerequisite(s): 6 credits of COMM 1100 level or above, or 3 credits of university/college writing course. course outline | 3.0
EENG 7000 | Introduction to Climate Change, Ecology, and Systems Thinking ​This course presents the underpinning scientific concepts of contemporary environmental issues. It starts off with systems theory and ecosystem characteristics, including drivers for their change. More specifically, the course discusses deep ecology concepts and principles as they relate to human activities and their impacts on system functioning. The course further explores dimensions of integrated responses, including linkages of ecosystem services and human well-being. The course presents the most recent scientific evidence of the changing climate and evaluates industrial sectors - especially the energy sector - as the single largest anthropogenic source of climate‐changing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The course explains and outlines principles of clean(er) technologies, industrial ecology and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Finally, the course provides the foundational concepts of environmental system analysis to learners who have no or limited specialized knowledge. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ENGL 1177 | Academic Writing This course introduces students to the principles of university-level writing and critical reading. Academic writing focuses on the study and application of the principles of university-level discourse, with particular emphasis on exposition and persuasion. Students will read and analyze essays, and write their own compositions. In several language workshops, students will also learn fundamental strategies for developing an effective prose style. Prerequisite(s): English Studies 12 "67%" (C+) or equivalent (ie: COMM 0015 "70+" or IELTS Academic 6.5, etc.) course outline | 3.0
FOOD 1026 | Food Microbiology The course deals with the general characteristics of bacteria and then goes into more detail about the types of microbes associated with foods that cause human illness, are used in the production of foods, and cause food spoilage. It addresses the intrinsic and extrinsic factors of foods that can be manipulated to control growth of microbes to both extend shelf life and help prevent foodborne illnesses. It also discusses other foodborne illness-causing organisms including Protista, Nematoda and Platyhelminthes phyla. It goes into detail regarding the microbiology of meats, the fundamentals of cleaning and sanitation, and the roles of management, personnel and building consideration as they pertain to microbiological control in food processing plants. BCIT issues a statement of completion to those who achieve a 70% pass grade. https://www.bcit.ca/study/programs/6340acert Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
FMGT 5330 | Impact Measurement & Reporting Measuring and reporting on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance is at the heart of sustainable business. This course introduces students to global sustainability reporting frameworks, standards and regulations. The course covers how an organization determines its material impacts and measures and reports on its ESG performance. The course explores current impact reporting methods and how organizations embed measurement and reporting into their day-to-day operations and disclose key material information to a diverse group of internal and external stakeholders.​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate, Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma, or Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
GLBL 5030 | French Business Language and Culture This course is designed for students with no prior knowledge of French. Students will develop the four basic language skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing), gain knowledge of the French culture, and learn how culture impacts business practices. Through interactive classroom activities and utilizing French first-language multi-media materials, students will learn business terminology and the professional communication skills needed to handle business situations. Students will demonstrate their understanding of the French business environment through a range of individual and group activities, assignments and examinations. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
HIST 1100 | Introduction to Modern World History This course surveys developments in world history since c. 1500 – when the discovery of the Americas by European explorers seeking new trade routes to Asia initiated global economic, political, and cultural interactions that have culminated in the highly interconnected and interdependent world of today. Introductory lectures will be devoted to the early modern period (1500-1750), but the course will focus more on trans-regional and transcultural developments after roughly 1750. The mid- to late eighteenth century has been widely viewed as the start of the modern era, a period distinguished by broad and constantly accelerating patterns of political, economic, and technological change. The shifts in international balances of power, and the global social and cultural upheavals that resulted from those changes, continue to influence the contemporary world. Beyond satisfying the intellectual curiosity many students have in world history (a worthy objective in itself), this introductory survey also serves an important practical purpose. World history exposes students to new perspectives, challenging them to think beyond the specific regional and cultural contexts they are most familiar with. This experience is increasingly recognized, by both public and private sector employers, as important for preparing graduates for a multicultural and highly globalized environment. Prerequisite(s): C+ in Grade 12 English. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7001 | Critical Reading and Writing This is a course in advanced composition and rhetoric, in which students will develop skills in complex critical analysis and interpretation by analyzing and evaluating materials from a variety of discourses or genres, including visual, online, and print; developing and writing essays, including critiques and research papers; applying and discussing principles of rhetoric and critical theory; examining and using methods of interpretation and analysis from the humanities and social sciences; evaluating the credibility of primary and secondary sources, including as it applies to media literacy, and for the purposes of academic research; situating discourses within their historical context and relevant to rhetorical theories of different periods (for example, Aristotle in the ancient world and Bakhtin in the twentieth century). The course format will include lecture, discussion, and both individual and group activities. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177 or equivalent, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7002 | Applied Ethics Fosters abilities and values required for ethical decision making at work. Develops skills in logical analysis, a working knowledge of moral principles and theories, and the ability to diagnose and resolve moral disagreements commonly found at work. Examines and applies moral principles to historically famous cases in manufacturing, human resources, management, engineering, health care, and computing. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7005 | Technology, Invention and Power From ancient Greek myth to modern science fiction, Western culture's depictions of the power of technology have shaped our contemporary views. By analysing selected works of literature, film, TV and Internet sites from different historical periods, students will explore continuities and changes in depictions of technology and its transformative powers. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7006 | Philosophy of Science: Understanding Scientific Reasoning Develops simple, yet powerful methods for understanding and evaluating a wide variety of scientific and pseudo scientific material. Introduces some of the great thinkers and theories of the past, both winners and losers. Reflects on what makes scientific reasoning so effective, and uses these reflections to evaluate some contemporary criticisms of the place of science in society. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7007 | Technology and Society This course will explore the interrelationship between technology and society. The course will focus on how societal forces shape and are shaped by the meanings, development, spread, and uses of technology. Concepts, perspectives, and arguments from the social sciences and humanities will be studied and applied to analyze connections between society and technology. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7008 | Logic and Practical Reasoning This course emphasizes that people are responsible for the rationality of their opinions, in all areas of their lives. To that end, the course teaches methods for analysing and evaluating both ordinary and famous arguments, as found in everyday life, politics, religion, science, technology, and (even) philosophy. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7011 | War, Peace and Justice Recent events on the world stage, along with Canada's somewhat ambivalent attitude toward its own role in armed intervention have sparked renewed interest in the legality of specific wars and in the ethics of warfare generally. This course considers whether there is any defensible basis for applying legal and ethical standards to armed conflict among and within nations. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7014 | Film and Theatre: An Active Audience In this course students will learn how to watch movies and read plays with a critical eye. In the discussions about movies the focus will be on the "grassroots creativity" - fan movies and video games - as responses to media industry dominance. Also, the topics such as film, theatre and politics, Hollywood versus independent films, and film and art will be explored. During the course there will be a few screenings of some cult movies such as Blade Runner, Casablanca, and Pulp Fiction. After completing the course, students should be able to demonstrate the ability to engage in critique relevant to both film and theatre media texts. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7016 | Food and Society: Meanings, Desires, and Relationships Food is essential for human life. The expression "we are what we eat" invites further attention to the ways food connects us to places, people, histories, cultures, and identities. Eating is driven not only by biological processes but also by psychological and social processes. Food can be viewed as a tangible material object as well as a manifestation of particular ideas, values, and practices. Food can be debated as a product of nature and a product of human or technological interventions. The course locates the study of food at some of these crossroads. Students will examine what food reveals or conceals about interpersonal, societal, technological, and environmental relationships. Students will explore how food keeps company with the senses, emotions, passion, desire, memory, and power. Students will reflect on how food (or the lack of food) conveys oppositional meanings such as love and rejection, reward and punishment, illness and health, celebration and grief, or conflict and resolution. Course material will open up interdisciplinary approaches drawn from the humanities and social sciences related to the study of food within and across societies. Representations, symbolism, and meanings of food in literary, artistic, and multimedia works will also be discussed. Course material may include a range of time periods and cultures. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7021 | Health Ethics This course introduces students to contemporary issues in health ethics by examining and applying ethical theories to moral dilemmas at the clinical, professional, and organizational levels. To this end, developing competence in moral reasoning is an important goal, one that will be emphasized through the analysis of case studies that test personal, professional, and societal values. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7027 | Selected Topics in Liberal Studies This interdisciplinary course provides an in-depth study of a topic in liberal studies, to develop students' understanding of a specific cultural, literary, artistic, technological, or scientific issue of concern to society, including consideration of both continuity and change. LIBS 7027 promotes cultural and civic literacy by exploring important social and cultural issues, in order to enhance the ability of students to contribute positively to workplaces and communities. Topics vary from term to term and may include subjects such as: technology and values; environmental ethics; utopian literature; the city - design and history; women in science and technology. Students may only take Selected Topics twice for credit towards a BCIT degree program. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
MINE 1100 | Introduction to the Minerals Industry Introduces students to the wide scope of the mining industry and prepares them for further courses in mining. The course covers the breadth of the industry from mineral exploration through to processing and marketing of mining products. The importance of environmental considerations and sustainable development are introduced. Students will learn the terminology used in the industry in preparation for further courses taught during the program. Except for online courses, a visit to an active mining operation will form part of the course curriculum. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MINE 1101 | Physical Geology Presents an overview of the processes and materials that form and shape the planet Earth. The theory of plate tectonics is introduced and used as the basis of understanding the fundamental geological processes that operate both on, and beneath the Earth's surface. The formation and characteristics of minerals and development of the geological time scale, and deformation in the Earth's crust are reviewed as are an introduction to the geology of mineral and energy deposits and the geology of North America. Laboratory work includes identification of minerals, examination of geological maps and structures, and study of geological processes. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
OPMT 5120 | Sustainable Business Operations This course introduces students to current issues in sustainable operations management. These issues include waste and energy minimization, globalization of operations, and closed loop value cycles. Students examine the influence of sustainability on the major operations management decisions and processes including Product/Service Design, Production and Service Delivery, Supply Chain Management, and Facilities Management. The course explores the frameworks, standards, and methodologies used to align business operations with sustainability principles. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate, Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma, or Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 4.0
OPMT 5310 | Sustainability Management Systems for Business Leaders Consumers, regulatory agenies, NGO's and employees are increasingly demanding hange change in the operational impact of the business and orginizations they choose to partner with. This course identifies the key requirements of a Sustainability Management System using standards such as as ISQ 14001 Environmental Management Systems, ISO 26000 Social Responsibilty, the SDG Impact Standards for Enterprises, and B Corporation (BCorp), as well as area and subject specific standards. Students investigate the critical elements of a management system and how they can be used to manage and improve the positive environmental and social impact of an organization. Prerequisite(s): 50% in OPMT 5120 course outline | 3.0
OPMT 5320 | Sustainable Process Improvement and Design Consumers, regulatory agencies, NGOs and employees are increasingly demanding change in the operational impact of the business and organizations they choose to partner with. This requires that business processes accomplish desired targets with greater ecological efficiency (eco-efficiency) and with increasing containment of their impact (eco-effectiveness). This course explores the role of process improvement and design/redesign in the overall context of improving environmental and social performance. Students participate in a term-long case study that covers design methods, problem-solving approaches, team skills, and project management. Prerequisite(s): 50% in OPMT 5120 course outline | 3.0
OPMT 5700 | Precalculus for Management Provides the mathematical knowledge required to move into the more advanced business math courses, especially Calculus for Management. Topics include linear and quadratic equations and inequalities, polynomials, rational functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, sequences and series. Applications to economics and finance are used. Prerequisite(s): Diploma of Technology in Business. course outline | 3.0
ORGB 5230 | Sustainable Change Management and Leadership Consumers, regulatory agencies, NGOs, and employees are increasingly demanding change in the social and environmental impacts of businesses and organizations. This course prepares students to be sustainability champions who lead change efforts within organizations to promote social equity and respect planetary boundaries. Students learn practical tools and concepts, adding to their personal facilitation tool box to help them engage others in sustainability change processes. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate, Sustainable Business Leadership Advanced Diploma, or Bachelor of Business Administration program. course outline | 3.0
PSYC 1101 | Introductory Psychology 1 This university-transferable course focuses on the psychologist's approach to theories, problems and issues in contemporary psychology. This survey course introduces the student to the following areas of psychology: perspectives in psychology and current research findings on biological aspects, sensory processes, perception, consciousness, learning and memory. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
PSYC 1102 | Introductory Psychology 2 This university-transferable course focuses on the psychologist's approach to theories, problems and issues in contemporary psychology. This survey course introduces the student to the following areas of psychology: theories of personality, psychological disorder and its treatment, health psychology, emotion and motivation, social psychology and cultural influences, developmental changes over the life span, thought and intelligence. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Total Credits: | 61.5
Check current availability of courses for this program.
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
The first two years, or lower levels, of the Bachelor of Business Administration program is a minimum of 110 credits taken over two 9-month academic years, September to May. The upper levels (third and fourth year) are completed either full-time or part-time. The full-time option has an 8-month academic year, September to April. The part-time option is offered continuously over three equal terms starting in September, January or May.
The BBA program follows the “two by two” model, meaning the first two years of the degree are fulfilled by one of the School of Business + Media Full-time diploma programs. Students must first apply and be accepted into a diploma program. Upon completion of the diploma, students then apply to complete the BBA program.
### Specializations and joint programs
### BBA & Sustainable Business Leadership joint program
You can use courses from the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate to meet your BBA elective requirements . As a BBA student, you can register for individual sustainable business electives by emailing your registration request to sbl@bcit.ca , or you can apply for and being admitted into the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate , which allows you to complete all of your BBA elective requirements while earning this second credential.
Registering for the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate is recommended if you plan to take more than 1 or 2 sustainable business courses to ensure these courses count towards both your elective requirements and the Sustainable Business Advanced Certificate.
### The full BBA program matrix
The following illustrates the complete program matrix for a student who completes the BBA degree program. Note that course numbers may vary depending on which field a student chooses to specialize in. Questions regarding equivalencies should be directed to the BBA Program Administrator.
### Lower levels (years 1 and 2)
Year one common core courses | Credits
BSYS 1000 Computer Applications 1 | 3.0
BSYS 2650 Computer Applications 2 | 2.0
BSYS 2660 Computer Applications 3 | 2.0
BUSA 2100 Principles of Management | 2.0
COMM 1100 Business Communication 1 | 3.0
COMM 2200 Business Communication 2 | 4.0
ECON 2100 Microeconomics | 3.0
FMGT 1100 Accounting 1 | 4.0
FMGT 2100 Accounting 2 | 5.5
HRMG 3100 Intro Human Resource Mgmt | 2.5
MKTG 1102 Essentials of Marketing | 3.0
OPMT 1100 Intro to Operations Management | 2.5
OPMT 1110 Business Mathematics | 4.0
OPMT 1130 Business Statistics | 5.5
OPMT 1170 Project Management | 2.5
ORGB 1100 Organizational Behaviour | 3.0
Total credits | 55.5
### Year two field specialization
- Business Law
- Finance
- And field specialty courses from: Business Management Human Resources Finance & Accounting General Insurance and Risk Management Global Trade and Transportation Management Marketing, Tourism, Real Estate, Sales Business Operations Management and Logistics Business Information Technology Management
Normally, completion of years one and two is satisfied by completing one of the business diploma programs at BCIT. Students who have completed two years in a non-business program or who have taken the first two years of business at another institute will be required to complete a 9-month bridging program, one of:
- Business Management (advanced placement)
- Human Resource Management (advanced placement)
- Sustainable Business Leadership (advanced diploma)
### BBA program (years 3 and 4)
BBA year three required core business courses | Credits
BABI 8800 Data and Decisions | 4.0
BSYS 5100 AI in the Organization: Strategy, Ethics, and Practice | 1.5
BUSA 7500 Applied Capital and Financial Markets | 4.0
BUSA 7900 Applied Strategic Management – Design, Risks, and Ethics | 4.0
ECON 8550 Managerial Economics | 4.0
OPMT 7701 Calculus for Management | 4.0
ORGB 8700 Implementing Organizational Change – Stakeholders, Timing and Evaluation | 4.0
Total credits | 25.5
BBA year three required option courses (students choose one option) | Credits
Option 1 – Global Business
BUSA 8100 Cross-Cultural Management | 3.0
BSUS 7100 Ecological Economics; Social and Environmental Policy | 3.0
GTTM 7000 International Management and Cross-Cultural Negotiations | 3.0
O ption 2 – Marketing Brand Management and Consumer Insights
BSUS 7200 Social Purpose Business; Uniting Brand and Impact | 3.0
MKTG 7100 Brand Strategy in the Digital Age | 3.0
MKTG 8100 Consumer Insights | 3.0
O ption 3 – Business Intelligence and Value Management
BABI 7800 Power BI and Data Analytics | 3.0
BABI 8900 Performance and Value Management | 3.0
BSUS 7400 Life Cycle Assessment for Business | 3.0
Total credits | 9.0
BBA year four elective courses | Credits
SSCI EDUC Social Science/Humanities | 6.0
UNSP EDUC Unspecified General Education | 9.0
NSCI EDUC Natural Science | 3.0
ENGL EDUC English Literature/Composition | 3.0
ASCI EDUC Arts or Science | 6.0
Total credits | 27.0
Students must complete 27 credits of electives that satisfy the BBA degree program breadth requirements. A complete list of eligible courses offered at BCIT can be found in the Courses section of this website and on the General Education Guidelines [PDF] document.
### Program length
The maximum time to complete the program is seven years. Once accepted into the program a BCIT Business Administration BBA program plan is issued identifying the courses required for degree completion.
Full-time
24 months, full-time*.
The full-time program runs from September until April. *May be completed in an accelerated format.
Part-time
Upon acceptance, students are eligible to register for degree level courses. Courses are offered three times a year to coincide with the Part-time Studies terms:
Winter term | January - April
Spring term | April - June/July
Fall term | September - December
General Education courses may also be completed through another accredited institution.
### Program delivery
Full-time In person: The full-time program is delivered on campus.
Part-time Blended: The part-time program is delivered partly on campus and partly online.
### Program location
Full-time Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
Part-time Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
Courses are also offered through online learning .
## Graduating & Jobs
BBA graduates represent the program in many different industries, working in small companies and large corporations, including some of the top employers in British Columbia. The following BBA job bank consists of some the companies where our alumni work in BC and abroad.
### BBA job bank
- BCAA – British Columbia Automobile Association
- BCIT – British Columbia Institute of Technology
- B.C. Sash & Door Co.Ltd.
- BMO Investments Inc.
- Canaccord Capital
- C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.
- Coca-Cola Bottling Company
- Dynamic Architectural Windows & Doors
- FIDO
- HSBC Bank Canada
- Ipsos Canada
- MC Freight Systems
- MD Management
- Leavitt Machinery
- PMC-SIERRA
- Purolator Courier Ltd.
- Ricoh
- Shelley Morris Business Services
- Sunrise Soya Foods
- Sutton Group
- The Artona Group Inc.
- Uniserve Communications Corporation
- United Way of Lower Mainland
- Vancouver Parks & Recreation
- Vancity Credit Union
- Vancouver Coastal Health
- Vancouver School Board
- Visiphor Corporation
BCIT BBA graduates are exceptional, and it shows. Graduates have been accepted into the following schools:
### MBA programs
McGill Queen’s SFU UBC University of New Brunswick (MOU) Wilfrid Laurier
### Masters of Digital Media
Centre for Digital Media
### Law schools
Dalhousie UBC University of Ottawa University of Washington
### Graduate programs
Masters of Economics (SFU) Masters of Education Technology (UBC) Masters of International Studies (University of Michigan)
BCIT students are also eligible for Masters programs at any of our partner universities through the Student Exchange Program.
### Testimonials
“The BCIT BBA gave me the necessary skills I needed to begin and excel in my career. I was employed immediately upon graduation and after a few years of working as a program lead/analyst, I was accepted into the Master of Public Policy program at SFU. I find myself leaning on best practices, such as teamwork, communication, and time management, all gained from my experience in the BBA program.” Amber Butterworth, Project Lead / Program Analyst
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Bachelor of Business Administration
### Apply for graduation
Upon successful completion of all program requirements, complete the Application for BCIT Credential . Please allow up to eight weeks for processing.
All financial obligations to the Institute must be met prior to issuance of any credential.
## Frequently Asked Questions
### The application process for BCIT diploma students
- When should I apply to the BBA program?
- I am currently a BCIT Diploma student in the School of Business but I haven’t graduated yet. Can I still apply?
- I have a BCIT Diploma but not from a Business Program. Can I get my BBA degree?
- I have a BCIT Business Diploma but I only want to do the BBA part-time. Are the rules different?
- I just finished my Diploma program. Can I get a FEE deferral?
### General arts and science requirements
- How many credits of general education do I have to complete in order to get my BBA degree?
- Can I transfer general education courses completed outside BCIT towards my BBA degree? What is the process?
- Can I take general education courses at another institution?
### General questions
- If I am not a BBA student at BCIT, can I still register for a BBA course?
- What is the difference between the BBA and the ASTB (Advanced Studies in Business) Programs?
- How long it will take me to complete my BBA Program?
### The application process for BCIT diploma students
### When should I apply to the BBA program?
Full-time applications are accepted between the first week of January to the last week of March. The full-time admission process is competitive and there are limited seats available. For best chance at acceptance into the program, apply as soon as possible in term 4 of your BCIT diploma program to begin September that year.
Full-time and part-time applications are treated separately. Part-time applications are accepted year-round, and accepted students may take the next available courses. See our Entrance Requirements page for the details and criteria.
Applicants who meet the minimum requirements are ranked. Acceptance or conditional acceptance is based on the ranking and available seats.
Top
### I am currently a BCIT Diploma student in the School of Business, but I haven’t graduated yet. Can I still apply?
You may apply in the fourth term of your diploma, based on your grades in the first three terms and be conditionally accepted until fourth term grades are calculated.
Top
### I have a BCIT Diploma but not from a Business Program. Can I get my BBA degree?
Several BCIT diploma programs are acceptable for admission to the BBA program with a minimum overall average of 70% and completion of additional bridging courses . Please contact bba@bcit.ca to confirm which bridging courses are required. Learn more about the BBA Pathway Programs here .
Top
### I have a BCIT Business Diploma, but I only want to do the BBA part-time. Are the rules different?
The minimum admission standard is the same whether part-time or full-time, however, there is no limit on the number of part-time students admitted each term.
Top
### I just finished my Diploma program. Can I get a FEE deferral?
Yes, contact financial aide and identify yourself as a BBA student.
Top
### General arts and science requirements
### How many credits of general education do I have to complete in order to get my BBA degree?
In order to earn your BBA degree, you have to complete 27.0 general education credits.
Top
### Can I transfer general education courses completed outside of BCIT towards my BBA degree? What is the process?
Yes, you can transfer general education courses from the different post-secondary institutions towards your BBA degree if they meet BBA general education requirements. Each course has to be a lower or upper-level university 3-credit course in the following subject areas:
- 3.0 credits English Literature or Composition
- 6.0 credits Social Science or Humanities
- 3.0 credits Natural Science
- 6.0 credits of Arts or Science
- 9.0 credits unspecified credits
Once you complete the general education courses, you have to send the official transcript to BCIT Admissions, at 3700 Willingdon Avenue, Burnaby, BC, V5G 3H2
Top
### Can I take general education courses at another institution?
Yes, as long as they meet the requirements listed on the general education information page. It is best to discuss any potential courses with the program head or an advisor in the Registrar’s Office. In general, an acceptable transfer course must be a university-level course (first year or higher). If taken at a college, it must be transferable to any of the universities in the province.
Top
### General questions
### If I am not a BBA student at BCIT, can I still register for a BBA course?
Yes, you can register for part-time BBA courses once you’ve completed required prerequisites and received department approval. Please contact the degree programs administrator at 604-412-7486 to obtain the approval.
Top
### What is the difference between the BBA and the Advanced Studies in Business (ASTB) programs?
The BBA is a BCIT business degree that allows BCIT diploma students to further their education and receive a degree conferred by BCIT.
The ASTB is an advanced certificate offered in partnership with Thompson Rivers University (formerly Cariboo College), which confers the TRU-OL degree. It is made up of eight advanced part-time business courses that fulfill the business component of the TRU degree completion program. Currently these courses are the same as the eight core business courses required by the BCIT BBA program.
As of September 2005, BCIT BBA program students do not qualify for the ASTB certificate. Application to the BBA is separate from application to the ASTB.
Top
### How long it will take me to complete my BBA Program?
The maximum time to complete the program is seven years, but please view the Program Details page for specific information.
Top
## BBA Executive Pathway
The Executive Path for the BCIT Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree program allows working professionals advanced placement into the program through recognition of workplace experience and education. Individuals who do not meet the traditional entrance requirements have an alternative path to complete their degree part-time. Students broaden their knowledge in the BBA program, which focuses on critical and strategic thinking skills.
### Eligibility
Several years of experience in management or administration, combined with some formal education (post-secondary education or industry training). The program offers specific bridging path opportunities for individuals who are:
- First Responders (fire, police, paramedics)
- Canadian Forces Veterans or Reservists
- Mature Student with a combination of 7 or more years experience in management or administration and some formal education
- Red Seal or Journeyman Certificate plus 5+ years experience as a site supervisor, project or construction manager, or a self-employed contractor
### The BCIT model: fast, flexible and effective
The BBA Program provides the flexibility to complete this degree on a part-time basis, concurrent with employment. Program completion under the part-time option is usually within two or three years. The courses are offered year round, in three equal terms (Fall, Winter, Spring) as well as online and distributed learning (combining in-class and online)
### Step 1: eligibility assessment
Your eligibility for advanced placement is determined upon assessment of your work experience and/or post-secondary education.
Learn more about the assessment process and start your assessment .
### Step 2: complete bridging courses
Once you are qualified for advanced placement, you will be given a set of foundation courses to complete in the following fields of study*:
- Management
- Economics
- Finance & Accounting
- Marketing
- Quantitative Analysis
*Specific course requirements will vary based on individual assessment.
### Step 3: degree completion
Upon completion of the Bridging Path, you are ready to apply to the BBA Program, register, and complete classes on a course-by-course basis.
### Advanced Placement & Prior Learning (APPL)
The BBA Executive Pathway program is part of BCIT’s Human Capital Initiative which bridges the gap between workplace experience and post-secondary education in British Columbia. In this respect, the program supports the Institute’s provincial mandate to build economic capacity within the Province.
The BCIT Business + Media undertakes prior learning-related research and assessment activities which result in advanced placement education options for British Columbians. The School’s mission is to:
- Facilitate the recognition and transferability of education across a wide range of disciplines, the objective being to produce multi-disciplinary trained/skilled graduates who are valued by industry.
- Recognize and measure non-traditional training and workplace experience, thereby facilitating advanced placement and credits within the post-secondary education system in British Columbia.
### Canada-BC job grant
Businesses can receive up to $10,000 to offset the cost of employee training. Learn more about the Canada-BC Job Grant .
## Contact Us
Julia Humphrey Program Administrator, Bachelor of Business Administration 604-451-7085 | bba@bcit.ca
Michael Vaney Program Head, Full-time option, Bachelor of Business Administration
Pierre Matthee Program Head: Part-time option, Bachelor of Business Administration
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
