URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/biomedical-engineering-technology-diploma-full-time-5063dipma/
Title: Biomedical Engineering Technology
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Biomedical Engineering Technology
Diploma Full-time School of Health Sciences
## Overview
Biomedical engineering applies science and engineering to healthcare and medical device industries. Our grads maintain specialized medical equipment that is used to support patient care or help develop new medical devices and products.
Note: The September 2026 intake is now closed for new applications. Applications for re-admission and direct entry may still be submitted. Applications for the September 2027 intake will be accepted starting October 1, 2026.
Delivery: in person. See details .
### About the program
The BCIT Biomedical Engineering Technology program is the only one of its kind offered in BC and the only one in Canada that is specifically targeted to both hospital and medical device industries. Our students have access to BCIT’s extensive array of health technology equipment, which prepares them for the workforce as soon as they graduate.
- Two-year, full-time Diploma program
- Lectures, labs, research, and design projects [YouTube link] deliver a strong foundation of knowledge
- Hands-on workshops to learn and practice skills
- A five-week practicum and field trips give you hands-on learning in the work environment
Want to learn more about BCIT’s Biomedical Engineering Technology program? Visit Program Details .
### Who it’s for
This program is for individuals who:
- Have a high school diploma or higher level of education
- Enjoy working with people and teams in the healthcare industry
- Are curious about how things work from a technological and design perspective
- Want to develop their creative thinking and problem-solving skills
Our program graduates are demand. See Entrance Requirements to find out if biomedical engineering is right for you.
### What grads can do
Our Biomedical Engineering Technology program has a reputation among grads for launching careers. See Graduating and Jobs for opportunities.
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
Applications are accepted during the following periods:
Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intake may fill before the deadline.
Indigenous applicants : This program is committed to the recruitment and retention of Indigenous applicants. To support applicants, a dedicated Indigenous admissions process was established and one dedicated seat per intake is reserved for Indigenous students.
To be considered under this admission category, applicants must:
- Self-identify as an Indigenous person of Canada on the admission application
- Have successfully completed the program’s entrance requirements.
The seat will be released after May 30th if it is not filled.
Our program also works closely with Indigenous services at BCIT to ensure students receive the best possible support and encouragement while in the program. Please visit Indigenous Initiatives for more information on available resources.
### Entrance requirements
This program has a two-step admission process. Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Math*: one of the following (or equivalent): Pre-Calculus 12 (67%) or MATH 0001 - Technical Mathematics – BCIT (67%) or MATH 0120 - Math 12 Competency Test – BCIT (67%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or 3.0 credits of post-secondary math (linear algebra, pre-calculus, or calculus) at 100 level or higher (67%) from a recognized institution
- Chemistry: one of the following (or equivalent): Chemistry 11 (67%) or Chemistry 12 (67%) or CHEM 0110 – Chemistry 11 Challenge Exam – BCIT (67%) or CHEM 0120 – Chemistry 12 Challenge Exam – BCIT (67%) or 3.0 credits of post-secondary chemistry (67%) from a recognized institution
- Physics: one of the following (or equivalent): Physics 12 (67%) or PHYS 0312 - Technology Entry Physics 2 – BCIT (67%) or PHYS 0120 - Physics 12 Challenge Exam – BCIT (67%) or 3.0 credits of post-secondary physics (67%) from a recognized institution
- Complete the following forms for submission with your online application: Physical Requirements Form [PDF] : To acknowledge the nature of this training and the physically demanding nature of this work. Mandatory Applicant Questionnaire [PDF] : This form will be used with other entrance requirements to assess how prepared the applicant is to enter the program. This will determine if a meeting is required with the program.
*Note: Foundations of Mathematics 12 is not acceptable.
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
Step 2: Conditionally selected applicants
If you are selected for admission to the program, you will be requested to complete:
- Criminal Record Check [PDF] : As per the requirements of the British Columbia Criminal Records Review Act, post-secondary students who engage with children and/or vulnerable adults as part of a practicum must undergo a criminal record check.
- Immunization Review [PDF] : Submit your immunization review form to Student Health Services . Immunization is a mandatory requirement for this program. For instructions and more information, visit Student Health Services’ Health Science Student Information .
- Mandatory BMET Program Admission Forum: Attend one of the Mandatory BMET Program Admission Forums before September. This provides an opportunity to learn about the curriculum, potential career paths, meet faculty and current students, tour lab facilities, and have your questions addressed prior to the start of the term.
Once these and any other outstanding conditions have been met, you will receive notification of your full acceptance.
### Clinical requirements
Note: Effective immediately, all health care workers who come into contact with patients at publicly funded health care facilities or in the community, including at long-term care facilities, will have to get the influenza vaccine or wear a mask during flu season. This policy affects all students who will be entering a clinical setting. As such, you will be required to provide proof of your immunization or agree to wear a mask at all times through the flu season prior to being placed in your clinical studies.
Face Respirator Fit Testing
A face piece respiratory fit test is required before students are permitted to enter the clinical practicum. Upon successful completion of the fit test, the original certificate must be presented to the program and annual re-fitting is required. Students are expected to carry their certificate with them at all times during their practicum.
For the respirator fit testing, testing with a N95 respirator (1860, 1860s, or 1870) is required and must be performed in accordance with CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-02. Fit testing must also include inspection, cleaning, maintenance, and storage of protective equipment. Students will be given specific instructions in preparation for their fit testing by the provider they choose.
### Recommended for success
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Students enrolled in this program must complete the mandatory work component to qualify for graduation.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program currently meets the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
( CIPC : 15.0401)
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
Two dedicated seats per intake are reserved for TE students who have successfully completed all entrance requirements. These seats will be released after May 30th it they are not filled.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through either re-admission or direct entry . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
### Re-admission
You can apply for re-admission if you:
- were previously admitted to this program and completed part of it at BCIT and
- want to re-enter the program at an advanced level.
View the Re-admission Process and Guidelines
- Review the letter sent to you by Student Records at myBCIT . This letter will indicate whether you are required/eligible to apply for re-admission at this time. Alternatively, you may wish to contact the Program Head for more information about re-applying.
- If eligible, apply online for re-admission. Be prepared to pay the application fee. It is recommended that you submit your application for re-admission at least one term prior to your anticipated re-admission date.
- Re-admission is conditional on your successful implementation of a plan resolving previous academic difficulties. The applicant is responsible for submitting such a plan in writing to the Program Head at the time of application, and for carrying out the plan to the satisfaction of the program. Allow sufficient time between submission and the start of term to allow for satisfactory implementation of the plan.
- Applicants who have failed a term or any course more than once, or have failed more than one term in the program, are not ordinarily re-admitted.
- You may be required to repeat and successfully complete courses that have undergone a significant curriculum change, or courses that were taken more than three years previously. This may include courses for which transfer credits were previously granted. You may be required to adhere to a performance contract with the department.
- You will not be permitted to take any courses more than one level higher than your current level of study in the program (i.e. you may not take a level 4 course if you have an outstanding level 2 course.).
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Submit the Technology Re-admission Form [PDF] with your online application.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Direct entry
You can apply for direct entry if you:
- are a new applicant to this program but already completed an equivalent part of it at BCIT or elsewhere and
- want to apply to an advanced level.
BCIT accepts complete applications from:
- February 1st* to October 31st* for level 2 (January start)
- October 1st* to March 31st* for level 3 (September start)
Submit the following with your online application:
- Proof of meeting all general entrance requirements (Steps 1 to 3; note that direct entry applicants are not required to attend a BMET Program Information Session)
- Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF] showing that you have completed (or are registered in) all courses in the preceding level(s) (or equivalents*)
- Official transcripts** and course outlines for all previous education
- Resume, outlining previous education and work experience
*Details provided for equivalent courses must outline course descriptions, learning outcomes, and topics covered. Generally, to qualify for credit, the equivalent course(s) must have been completed within five years with a minimum of 65%, and have 80% or more commonality in the topics covered at a level that is comparable or higher. If relevant education was completed more than five years ago, substantial related work experience is required. On your resume, province an explanation of how your work experience relates to the courses in the preceding level(s). **Applicants who completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand will require a comprehensive evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES). Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered. These reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Direct entry FAQs
- When should I apply?
- What if I don’t receive credit for all courses in the preceding term?
Can I appeal the assessment of equivalency? You may appeal in writing. Be prepared to supply addition information or clarification to your original submission. You have 10 days to accept or appeal (in writing) the ‘Second Assessment’ that you receive by email.
- What will happen if I cannot complete all required courses before the term starts?
- When will I be accepted?
- What do I do if I have already completed a level 2 or 3 course?
- When will I get my timetable?
- When can I buy my books?
To register for a Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) course , visit Register for Flexible Learning courses or contact Student Information and Enrolment Services .
Still have questions? Review the Admissions FAQ or contact Program Advising .
## Costs & Supplies
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
Level 1: $1,960 (including laptop computer) Level 2: $950 Level 3: $1.200 Level 4: $1,050
(general estimated cost, subject to change)
Face respirator fit testing: approx. $25 per year, annual re-fitting required.
Plus additional cost of travel and accommodation if practicum takes place outside the Greater Vancouver area.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
Note: The Biomedical Engineering Technology program curriculum has been revised effective for all intakes starting in or after September 2019.
Students that began the program prior to September 2019 refer to the September 2018 (and prior) matrix [PDF] .
### Program matrix
Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
BHSC 1101 | Anatomy and Physiology 1 (BMET) Together with BHSC 2201, this course follows a systems approach to study the relationship between structure and function in the human body. BHSC 1101 begins with a discussion of cells and tissues as basic structural/functional units then introduces regulation and integration of body systems and the role of control systems in homeostasis. Nervous, endocrine, and other major major systems will also be covered. Where appropriate, each course gives examples of the uses of biomedical instruments in diagnosis and treatment of human disease. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
BMET 1100 | Electronics Principles and Practice 1 This course introduces the fundamental theory and practical applications of basic electrical concepts. Topics include electrical quantities, their units and relationships as well as passive electrical components and their characteristics. Major areas of study include DC circuit analysis, transient response to step inputs in simple RLC circuits, principles of magnetism and magnetic circuits. Each topic is reinforced through practical examples, laboratory exercises, and hands-on activities using common electrical devices and techniques. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1781 ‡ and PHYS 1179 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) MATH 1781 (50%) and PHYS 1178 (50%) must be taken concurrently unless prior credit is granted. course outline | 6.0
BMET 1130 | Introduction to Biomedical Engineering Technology ​This course introduces students to the profession and work environment of biomedical engineering technology. Topics will be introduced as an overview of the Biomedical Engineering Technology program, with references to specific courses that explore certain topics in more detail. Major topics include: Employment context for biomedical engineering technologists; Medical technology context; Professional and regulatory context; Healthcare technology management; Workplace safety Learning is supported through field trips, industry guest lectures, and online resources. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
COMM 1178 | Technical Communication 1 for Biomedical Engineering Technology Introduces you to the writing, reading, listening, and speaking skills you will need to successfully carry out your professional communication tasks. You will learn how to organize and present technical information, write memos/emails and letters, and prepare and deliver an oral presentation. The first term establishes the principles and basic patterns on which you will build more advanced applications in the second term. Prerequisite(s): English 12 or equivalent course outline | 3.0
COMP 1120 | Introduction to Computer Architecture and Configuration This course introduces students to typical PC architecture and organization. It gives an overview of the hardware organization and how operating system and application software interact with the hardware. The course covers PC system configuration, hardware and software installation as well as basic PC preventative maintenance and troubleshooting. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MATH 1781 | Technical Math for Biomedical Engineering Covers systems of linear equations and determinants with application to electrical, networks, logarithmic and exponential functions including the study of electrical transients, dB gain, logarithmic and semilog graphing, trigonometric functions and the graphs of the sinusoidal functions - right triangle geometry with application to impedance and admittance diagrams, complex numbers, rectangular/polar conversion and AC circuit applications, number base conversion and binary number operations with a brief introduction to Boolean logic and Karnaugh mapping. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 7.0
PHYS 1178 | Physics for Biomedical Engineering Technology A general level course with emphasis on the application of basic physics principles to biomedical engineering technology. Topics covered include measurement techniques and reporting, equilibrium mechanics, stress and strain relationships, fluid statics and dynamics, wave motion with application to sound and ultrasound, and applied optics. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
Level 2A (15 weeks) | Credits
BHSC 2201 | Anatomy and Physiology 2 (BMET) BHSC 2201 is a continuation of the systems approach to the study of Human Anatomy and Physiology begun in BHSC 1101. The major systems covered in this course are: skeletal, skeletal muscle, circulatory, respiratory, digestive, and urinary. Examples of the use of biomedical instruments in diagnosis and treatment of diseases involving these systems are given. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BHSC 1101 course outline | 3.0
BMET 2200 | Electronics Principles and Practice 2 Provides introduction to AC excited RLC circuits and the behavior of the basic active devices and integrated circuits. Topics include frequency response, RC, RL, RLC circuits, and resonant circuits, 3 phase systems, transformers, power suppliers, semiconductor fundamentals, diodes, bipolar transistor and field-effect transistor fundamentals, BJT and FET amplifier circuits, and the operational amplifier circuits. In Laboratory session, students will build a variety of circuits to confirm the theory and use the common test equipment to analyze and troubleshoot electronic circuits. Corequisites: MATH 2781. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BMET 1100 and 50% in MATH 1781 and 50% in PHYS 1178 MATH 2781 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) BMET 1100, MATH 1781, PHYS 1178 course outline | 7.0
BMET 2205 | Biomedical Computer Networks and Data Communication This course provides an introduction to the fundamentals of data communication and networking. The Open System Interconnect (OSI) model is used to discuss network architectures, protocols, topologies, networking hardware and software. Topics include network media, access control, Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), switching and routing, Ethernet Standards, IP addressing, wireless LAN Standards, and network security. Analog and digital data communications, transmission methods, coding schemes are also discussed. During the laboratory sessions, local area networks will be designed, built and managed to enhance understanding of the theoretical concepts, and to gain hands-on and troubleshooting experience with computer networks. Prerequisite(s): BMET 2200** and BMET 2215** and COMP 1120 and MATH 1781 and PHYS 1178 (**must be taken concurrently unless prior credit is granted) course outline | 5.0
BMET 2215 | Digital Electronics Introduces the principles and techniques of modern digital systems. Major topics covered include: number systems, logic elements and equations, combinational logic circuits, flip-flop circuits and sequential logic devices counters, digital arithmetic circuits, memory devices, integrated-circuit logic families and interfacing techniques. Each topic is reinforced by practical applications examined in the laboratory section of the course. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1781 and BMET 2200** (** must be taken concurrently unless prior credit is granted) course outline | 5.0
COMM 2278 | Technical Communication 2 for Biomedical Engineering Technology Continues the study begun in COMM 1178 in the writing and speaking skills you will need to successfully carry out your professional communication tasks. You will design and write an effective resume and cover letter, and participate in practice job interviews, as both an interviewer and interviewee. You will also write short reports and participate in productive project meetings. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1178 course outline | 2.0
COMP 3152 | Software Engineering This course will give students an understanding of software engineering on a variety of levels. Topics include: basic microprocessor/computer architecture, software development methodology and tools, assembly language programming, and C programming. If time permits, elements of scientific algorithms and real-time programming wil also be included. The goal of this course is to give the student an in-depth view of software engineering starting from the hardware level building up to the use of high level programming languages. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 2782 | Calculus for Biomedical Engineering Covers rules of differentiation, rates of change, related rates, differentials, implicit differentiation with application to electrical and mechanical problems, definite and indefinite integral, calculation of mean, RMS values for various electrical waveforms, integration techniques, and the Fourier series applied to electrical circuits. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1781 course outline | 5.0
Level 2B (5 weeks) | Credits
BMET 2210 | Electrical Skills Workshop for Biomedical Engineering Technology This course will offer a number of workshops and laboratory sessions in which students are introduced to a range of electrical components, tools and skills that are relevant to the profession. Each topic will be introduced with basic theory, and explored with hands-on skill development exercises that focus on selection of appropriate materials and tools, proficiency and safety. General skills: Apply anti-static precautions Fabricate and repair electrical wires and connectors: crimping and connector assembly, cable splices, heat shrinking, cable dressing Soldering, de-soldering and re-soldering Cable assembly and repair: hospital grade plug, North American and International wire color codes Measurement of AC and transient electrical quantities: (high) voltage, (high) current, frequency, phase shift, rise time, fall time, pulse width, slew rate, noise, intermittent events, pulse amplitude, decay time constant, etc. In addition, students will explore relevant characteristics of, and skills related to, the following: Sensors: mechanical, optical, magnetic Motors, actuators, relays Batteries, chargers Students will design and assemble a machine including the above listed components to achieve a specified objective. Prerequisite(s): BMET 1100 course outline | 1.5
BMET 2220 | Mechanical Skills Workshop for Biomedical Engineering Technology ​This is a hands-on workshop for biomedical engineering technology students. The workshop will introduce students to correct use of general hand tools and basic mechanical skills as employed in the profession. Safe working practice appropriate to shop activities will be emphasized. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
BMET 2225 | Practical Skills in Biomedical Engineering Technology This course will offer a number of workshops and laboratory sessions in which students are introduced to a range of practical skills that are relevant to the profession and which do not fit into the context of other academic courses. Each topic will be introduced with basic theory, and explored with hands-on skill development exercises that focus on selection of appropriate materials and tools, proficiency and safety. General skills: Correct use of appropriate lubricants and cleaners; Correct use of appropriate adhesives and sealants; Repair and maintenance of pneumatic and hydraulic components and (sub)systems; Systematic disassembly and reassembly of mechanical assemblies; Data analysis and graphing. Special skills associated with handling specific biomedical devices such as:Centrifuge, microtome; Optic components, microscopes. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
BMET 2230 | Biomedical Engineering Technology Seminars Students are introduced to the scope and practice in biomedical engineering through: Field trips to various workplaces including hospitals, research labs, medical device companies, and test centers. Presentations and guest speaker sessions on related topics. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.0
BMET 2235 | Investigations in Biomedical Engineering Technology ​In this course, students will carry out guided independent investigations to explore various selected topics or to solve a given problem. Students will collaborate in small teams to discuss the issue, design experiments that will provide more information, construct and validate the experimental setup, collect and analyze the data, and report the results. In some cases, the results of an investigation may lead to new questions to be explored further as time permits. The course will combine academic content from allied disciplines, which may provide the context for the investigation, or where the investigation provides the context in which content is applied. For example, topics from Physics, Biology or Chemistry may provide the context for an investigation, while Math and Communications are applied to analyze and communicate the results of the investigation. Prerequisite(s): BMET 1100 course outline | 3.0
Level 3 (15 weeks) | Credits
BMET 3300 | Electronics Principles and Practice 3 This is the third course in the study of analog electronic devices and circuits for the BMET program. The course provides further knowledge of linear and non-linear electronic circuits. Major topics covered include: operational amplifier circuits, oscillators and timers, phase locked-loop circuits, voltage regulation, thyristor devices and phase control circuits, data acquisition systems, analog to digital and digital to analog converters and interfacing devices and techniques. Each topic is reinforced by practical applications examined in the laboratory section of the course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BMET 2200 and BMET 2210 and 50% in BMET 2215 and 50% in MATH 2782 course outline | 6.0
BMET 3301 | Biomedical Devices Technology 1 Introduce systems approach to study biomedical instrumentations and systems. Describe the characteristics of biological signals and introduces methods to collect, process, display and record such signals. Discuss principles of operation, functional block diagrams, technical specifications, schematic diagrams, performance testing procedures and common problems of selected biomedical devices. Lab exercises are coordinated with lecture content. Prerequisite(s): BHSC 2201 and BMET 2200 and BMET 2205 and BMET 2210 and BMET 2215 and MATH 2782 and CHEM 1205** (**must be taken concurrently unless prior credit is granted) course outline | 6.0
BMET 3302 | Medical Device Standards Consists of four modules: • Biomedical Engineering Practice: discussion of o The hospital and medical device industry environment o The functions of the biomedical engineering technologists in R & D and technical support settings o Principles and practice of healthcare technology management • Medical Device Standards and Regulations, which includes o The regulatory context in Canada o Relevant safety standards and inspection procedures o Risk management o Design control • Troubleshooting Techniques: introduces formal and practical approaches to problemsolving and troubleshooting • Preparation for Biomedical Engineering Project: preparation of a project proposal to be carried out in BMET 4402. Laboratory sessions, projects and assignments reinforce the theory and allow you to gain experience in electrical safety measurements and troubleshooting techniques. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BMET 2200 course outline | 6.0
BMET 3305 | Computer Network Applications in Healthcare ​This is the second Biomedical Computer Networks and Data Communications course. Students will examine the computer networks with applications in healthcare and in greater depth. The course introduce students to the Wide Area Networks. Topics include IP address sub-netting and super-netting, virtual LAN, IPv6, virtual private network and network security. Theory and laboratory sessions include medical application of infusion pump (wired and wireless), telemetry, physiological monitoring systems, Picture Archiving Communication Systems (PACS) and medical device integration. Healthcare information system standards will be discussed as well as network security and data integrity in the medical network environment. Prerequisite(s): BMET 2200 and BMET 2205 and BMET 2215 course outline | 3.0
BMET 3315 | Microcontrollers and Embedded Systems ​This lab-lecture course introduces the student to the principles and procedures necessary to design and develop hardware and software for microcontroller-based embedded systems. Course topics include: internal microcontroller architecture, structure and operation of various hardware components used aboard the microcontroller (timer, pulse-width modulator, analog to digital converter), the interrupt mechanism, interfacing methods, and software and hardware tools used for debugging and testing. Each topic is reinforced by practical applications examined in the laboratory section of the course. Prerequisite(s): BMET 2200 and BMET 2215 and COMP 3152 course outline | 5.0
CHEM 1205 | General and Organic Chemistry for Biomedical Engineering Starts with a review of the atom, moles, chemical equations and stoichiometry. An overview of bonding is presented. Oxidation and reduction will then be discussed with reference to balancing redox equations. Solution stoichiometry is then studied. Acid-base chemistry is studied with emphasis on the difference between strong and weak electrolytes and different types of buffer solutions. Electrochemistry is introduced with emphasis on different types of voltaic cells. Then the major groups of organic compounds are considered and the basic physical and chemical properties of each group are described. The laboratory work will acquaint the student with the basic techniques used in chemistry as well as several techniques used in a clinical laboratory. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
Level 4A (15 weeks) | Credits
BMET 4401 | Biomedical Devices Technology 2 Presents the principles of operation, application, design, construction, potential hazards and common problems of diagnostic and therapeutic medical equipment (e.g. physiologic monitors, electrosurgical units, cardiac defibrillators, etc.) used in the clinical environment. Cover selected equipment in more detail (may go over schematic diagrams, wiring diagrams, performance assurance tests, calibration procedures and problem solving). Lab exercises are coordinated with lecture content. Prerequisite(s): BMET 3300 and BMET 3301 and BMET 3302 and BMET 3305 and CHEM 2305** (** must be taken concurrently unless prior credit is granted) course outline | 7.0
BMET 4402 | Biomedical Engineering Technology Project During the course, students will undertake and complete a biomedical engineering project. From the concept developed during BMET 3302, students will develop detailed specifications, a project plan and schedule of the project. The project will be carried out with design methodologies that are consistent with ISO 13485 and QSR (21CFR820.30). Following detailed planning, students will participate in the design and development of the project, and will complete the project independently. These tasks may include circuit design, parts acquisition, printed circuit board layout, circuit building, package design and fabrication, wiring, troubleshooting and final testing. Students will maintain a detailed design history file, a logbook of their work throughout the course, and will prepare a technical report at the completion of their project. The process of design, prototyping, verification, validation and documentation will be introduced at different stages of the course. Guidance documents will specify the criteria for expectations with respect to various aspects of design control, risk management, project management, and documentation. Prerequisite(s): COMM 3478 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) BMET 3300 and BMET 3301 and BMET 3302 and BMET 3305 and BMET 3315 and COMM 3478** (** must be taken concurrently unless prior credit is granted) course outline | 4.0
BMET 4403 | Medical Imaging Systems Studies the basic operation and hardware involved in imaging systems used in medicine. Covers the fundamental principles, functional building blocks and quality assurance of radiography, nuclear medicine and ultrasound imaging equipment. Introduces concepts in radiation protection, other imaging modalities such as MRI and PET as well as the fundamentals of digital radiology and PACS. Reinforces lectures with practical laboratory sessions. Prerequisite(s): BMET 3305 and BMET 3300 and BMET 3301 course outline | 5.0
CHEM 2305 | Biochemistry/Instrumental Analysis This course provides an introduction to instrumental techniques (i.e. spectroscopy, electrochemistry, chromatography) with a focus on applications for the clinical lab. The course also includes an overview of biological chemistry and the methods used to analyze relevant biological molecules. Prerequisite(s): CHEM 1205 course outline | 5.0
COMM 3478 | Technical Communication 3 for Biomedical Engineering Technology COMM 3478 builds on the skills that you learned in COMM 1178 and 2278. You will update your career package for employment as a biomedical engineering technologist. While writing a technical research report for BMET 4403, you will consult with your COMM 3478 instructor for advice on format and organization. Finally, you will write a technical report documenting the device that you will design and build in BMET 4402. Prerequisite(s): BMET 4402** (** must be taken concurrently unless prior credit is granted) course outline | 1.0
ELEX 4855 | Electronic Image Displays This course introduces practical applications of video for acquisition and display of data. Fundamentals of analog and digital video raster scan displays are developed. The types of equipment used in image creation, transmission, and storage are discussed. Principles of illumination are introduced and the characteristics and construction of light sources and modifiers are discussed. Principals of photography and photographic equipment are explored. Methods of image capture are investigated. Image processing and manipulation topics are developed using appropriate application software. Applications specific to Biomedical Engineering, such as endoscopy, microscopy, and digital radiology will be presented. Topics in the application of digital image creation, acquisition, processing and display will be presented as lab activities. Prerequisite(s): BMET 3300 and BMET 3315 course outline | 4.0
HSIP 1000 | Health Sciences Interprofessional Patient Care ​The students in this course will gain the fundamental knowledge and skills for patient care in an interprofessional environment, learning with, from, and about other health science learners. Students will be introduced to health and safety measures, learn how to complete a variety of basic healthcare procedures, and develop competency in the use of equipment commonly used in various healthcare settings. This course will provide the knowledge and skills to effectively support patient care during various clinical skills. Theory is supported with supervised laboratory activities designed to give students opportunities to apply critical thinking and manual skills to a variety of patient care situations. *Note: Although the term “patient” is used in this course, it is intended to also mean “client”, “community member”, or “person”. In this course, we use the term “patient,” with the understanding that patients are persons who contribute equally and meaningfully to the healthcare team. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
MATH 3782 | Statistics for Biomedical Engineering Descriptive statistics. Estimation, central limit theorem, standard errors, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, the t- distribution. Linear regression and correlation. Empirical curve fitting. Introduction to quality control. Computer packages will be discussed. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
Level 4B (5 weeks) | Credits
BMET 4420 | Practical Experience in Biomedical Engineering Technology Enables the student to reinforce knowledge and gain practical working experience in the field of biomedical engineering technology. Allows the student to work under supervision in a hospital, medical device manufacturing facility, research and development laboratory, or technical service and support organization. The work experience is five weeks in duration. Prerequisite(s): BMET 3315 and BMET 4401 and BMET 4402 and BMET 4403 and CHEM 2305 and COMM 3478 and ELEX 4855 and MATH 3872 and HSIP 1000 course outline | 7.0
Total Credits: | 136.5
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
This program aims to provide individuals who are interested in technology and health sciences with entry-level skills to enter a challenging career in biomedical engineering.
Biomedical engineering technologists support, develop, and manage healthcare technology. Whereas other allied health practitioners focus on patient care, biomedical engineering technologists focus on the technology used by these health practitioners. The Biomedical Engineering Technology program combines characteristics of both engineering technology and allied health programs.
The program graduates biomedical engineering technologists with the ability to participate in the application and development of technology in healthcare, with emphasis on performance assurance, troubleshooting, and problem solving. The curriculum provides practical hands-on understanding in the fundamental principles, operations, and design of medical diagnostic and therapeutic devices and systems (examples: patient monitoring network, cardiac defibrillators, clinical laboratory analyzers, and medical imaging systems).
The program provides hands-on laboratory experience throughout, and trains students in engineering problem-solving methodology to allow them to upgrade and maintain their knowledge.
BCIT recommends membership in the Canadian Medical and Biological Engineering Society (CMBES) and the Applied Science Technologists and Technicians of British Columbia (ASTTBC).
The program encourages students to use their capstone projects to participate in engineering student design competitions organized by the industry. Below is an example:
### Simon Cox Student Design Competition
The Simon Cox Student Design Competition is an annual event brings together students from BC universities and colleges to create innovative assistive technology and home automation solutions for people with disabilities.
Check out some recent capstone projects entered into the competition by BCIT’s Biomedical Engineering Technology students:
### Proximeter (award winner)
### Swift-Lift
### Honey Pusher
Watch previous project videos on the BMET student projects YouTube playlist .
### Program length
Two years, full-time beginning in September each year.
### Accreditation
Graduates are eligible for registration as Applied Science Technologists (AScT) through ASTTBC after two years of relevant work experience following graduation.
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
## Graduating & Jobs
### Our graduates get work
Every hospital and clinic needs biomedical engineering technologists to keep life-saving machines functioning at their best. Biomedical engineering professionals develop new medical devices and products to diagnose and treat patients. Work opportunities are dynamic and diverse, with room for advancement and flexibility.
### Career opportunities
Creative. Innovative. Skilled. Biomedical engineering technology grads have numerous options. From hospitals, technical support, sales, operations, design, and innovation, grads can choose the field that best suits their skills and passion.
Entry-level positions, such as a hospital biomedical engineering technologist, start at salaries of approximately $74,000 in the public sector.
Grads can work in a variety of areas including:
- Technical service and support in hospitals, laboratories, and private clinics
- Medical equipment field service
- Medical device research, development, and production
- Healthcare technology training and management
- Medical product sales and marketing
### Keep learning
Grads can complete degrees in engineering, business, and technology management. They qualify to join professional associations like the Canadian Medical and Biological Engineering Society (CMBES) and the Applied Science Technologists and Technicians of British Columbia (ASTTBC) .
### Graduate listing
Please check our list of Biomedical Engineering graduates , searchable by graduate year.
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Biomedical Engineering Technology
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
### Anthony Chan
PhD, PEng, CEng, CCE Program Head, Biomedical Engineering, School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-432-8994 Email: Anthony_Chan@bcit.ca
### More about Anthony Chan
Work experience
Dr. Anthony Chan has been a faculty member of the British Columbia Institute of Technology since 1992 and is currently the Program Head of the Biomedical Engineering Technology Program in the School of Health Sciences. He is also a teaching faculty and Adjunct Professor of the School of Biomedical Engineering at the University of British Columbia. Prior to joining BCIT, Anthony was the Director of Biomedical Engineering at the Royal Inland Hospital in Kamloops, B.C, Canada and the Consultant and Manager of the Biomedical Engineering Departments at the Burnaby and Lion’s Gate Hospitals in Vancouver. Anthony is a Professional Engineer (Canada), Chartered Engineer (UK), Certified Clinical Engineer (Canada), fellow of CMBES, fellow of EIC, life senior member of IEEE, member of IET, and corporate member of HKIE.
Education
Anthony graduated in Electrical Engineering (B.Sc. honors) from the University of Hong Kong and completed his M.Sc. in Computer Engineering from the same University. He completed a master’s degree (M.Eng.) in Clinical Engineering and a Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering from the University of British Columbia, Canada. He also holds a Certificate in Health Services Management from the Canadian College of Health Leaders.
Publications
Anthony has research interest in assistive technology, medical device development, and healthcare technology management. He has been invited to give lectures at universities, speak at technical meetings, and as plenary speakers at international conferences and symposia. In addition to peer-reviewed journal paper and conference proceeding publications, Anthony is the author of two books – “Medical Technology Management Practice” (2003) and “Biomedical Device Technology: Principles and Design” (3rd ed. 2023, 2nd ed. 2016, 1st ed. 2008).
Other
Anthony was nominated and received the “Outstanding Canadian Biomedical Engineer Award” in 2007 from the Canadian Medical and Biological Engineering Society (CMBES) for outstanding contributions to the field of biomedical engineering. Anthony was also the recipient of the 2009 BCIT Alumni Association’s “Excellence in Teaching and Research Award” for making a tangible difference in helping BCIT to produce exceptional graduates and has enhanced BCIT’s world class reputation. In 2015, he was recognized and awarded fellow of CMBES for his exceptional record of accomplishments and service to biomedical engineering and bringing significant value to the Society and the profession. In 2023, he was inducted as Fellow of the Engineering Institute of Canada (EIC), in recognition of excellent in engineering and services to the profession and to society. He is a founding board of director of “Technology for Living”, a non-profit organization providing technology and support for people with disabilities to live independently.
### Reza Darestani
PhD, MSc, BSc Instructor, School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-622-7868 Email: mdarestani@bcit.ca
### Jochen Boehm
MEng, PEng Instructor, School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-451-7177 Email: Jochen_Boehm@bcit.ca
### More about Jochen Boehm
Work experience
Jochen is a Professional Engineer (P.Eng.) with 23 years experience in the world of Clinical/Biomedical Engineering. After several temporary engagements as Clinical Engineer in local Biomedical Engineering departments he joined Xillix Technologies Corp. in 1993 and Novadaq Technologies in 2006. Within these companies, Jochen’s responsibilities ranged from Customer Service, Design Maintenance, Engineering Operations, to Quality Assurance and Project Management.
Education
Jochen received his B.A.Sc. (Engineering Physics, 1985) and his M.Eng. (Clinical Engineering, 1987) degrees from the University of British Columbia.
Special interests
- Teaching
- Software development and database applications
- Quality management systems
### Ginny Foo
DipT (BMET), BSc, AScT, PMP-certified through MOT-MBA degree Instructor, School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-432-8520 Email: gfoo@bcit.ca
### More about Ginny Foo
Work experience
Ginny joined the faculty of Biomedical Engineering Technology in 2012 as an Assistant Instructor, then went back to work in the industry in 2015 doing equipment planning for various lower mainland health authorities. Notable projects: BC Children’s Women’s Hospital Phase 3 & RCH Redevelopment Phase 2. Prior to BCIT, Ginny worked as a technologist at PHC- St. Paul’s Hospital and received many factory-level service trainings during her career in the hospital. She has 5 years knowledge in the dialysis machine specialty and 7 years in the perfusion/ OR/ anaesthesia/ equipment specialty. Ginny’s interest is keeping the workshop neat and tidy, while ensuring that the tools and equipment are all in good working order.
### Jenny Jin
DipT (BME), Master in Electronics, Bachelor in BME Instructor, School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-432-8509 Email: jjin12@bcit.ca
### More about Jenny Jin
Work experience Jenny Jin joined the faculty of the Biomedical Engineering Technology Program in 2015. Her teaching duties at BCIT include Medical Computer Networks and Data Communications, and Electronics. Prior to BCIT, Jenny worked as a Biomedical Engineering technologist at Vancouver General Hospital and received many factory-level service trainings during her career in the hospital. Before Jenny moved to Canada, she was an instructor in Tianjin University, teaching Signal and System Analysis; she was also a Biomedical Engineer researching and developing Medical laser systems.
Education
Jenny received her Master’s degree of Physical Electronics and her Bachelor’s degree of Biomedical Engineering from Tianjin University in China. She also graduated from BCIT Biomedical Engineering Technology program.
### Alexander Sayer (on leave)
BTech (Electronics), DipT (BME) Instructor, School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-432-8758 Email: asayer2@bcit.ca
### More about Alexander Sayer
Work experience Alex is an Engineer in Training (EIT) with 10 years experience in Biomedical Engineering. After graduating from BCIT’s Biomedical Engineering Diploma of Technology in 2012 he worked for the Lower Mainland Biomedical Engineering department at St. Paul’s, Royal Columbian and Vancouver General Hospitals. His responsibilities included the maintenance, repair and troubleshooting on a wide variety of biomedical and electronic equipment for which he has received factory level training.
At Royal Columbian Hospital he was on the surgical team responding to stat trouble calls on Anaesthetic Machines, Patient Monitors and Electrosurgical units in the Operating Rooms. At Vancouver General he is a member of the Hyperbaric operator team assisting with the administration of hyperbaric oxygen treatment for both acute and chronic conditions.
Education Alex received his Diploma of Technology In Biomedical Engineering in 2012, and a Bachelor of Technology in Electronics from BCIT in 2017.
### Majid Shokoufi
PhD (BME) Instructor, School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-451-6995 Email: mshokoufi@bcit.ca
### More about Majid Shokoufi
Work experience Dr. Majid Shokoufi joined as a faculty member of the Britsh Columbia Institute of Technology in 2020. Before joining BCIT, he was CTO of OptiCan Systems Inc. and a postdoctoral research fellow at Simon Fraser University where he led a team to design, develop, and validate a novel optical technology for early detection of breast cancer (DOB-Scan probe). The outcomes of his research have been presented and published in several conferences and journal papers and the ideas of DOB-Scan and its related algorithms have been filed for a US Patent in January 2018. Along with his academic role, Dr.Shokoufi has also collaborations with several companies in several healthcare-related projects such as developing a novel wearable health care monitoring device for the elderly, and self-balancing robotic exoskeleton as a technical lead and consultant. Since the biomedical engineering field is a multidisciplinary area, he has established strong collaborations with his peers in this research field as well as private sectors including BC Cancer Vancouver, Abbotsford and Surrey branches, Jim Pattison Outpatient Care and Surgery Centre, and iCord. This helps him to establish effective collaboration between the school and industries. He also founded his own company Electron Engineering Ltd. in 2004 where his team designed, developed, and commercialized several sophisticated industrial equipment such as UV-VIS-NIR spectrophotometers, laser-based interactive board.
Besides his research, he was a full-time lecturer at Azad University for over 6 years and a teacher assistant at SFU which provided an unparalleled opportunity to develop his skills as a teacher and mentor. He has taught courses for electrical engineering majors including electric circuits I and II, microprocessors, embedded systems, electric measurement, electronic circuits I and II, pulse circuits, engineering mathematics, wireless communication, and biomedical imaging systems including X-Ray, Ultrasound, CT-Scan, PET Scan, and MIR.
Education
Dr. Majid Shokoufi has received his bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Amir Kabir University and his Master’s degrees in electronic circuit design from IUST. He then received his Ph.D. in 2017 from Simon Fraser University in Biomedical Engineering – specializing in Biophotonics and cancer diagnosis.
### Quang Vo
PhD, MSc, BEng Instructor, School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-451-6995 Email: quang_vo@bcit.ca
### More about Quang Vo
Work experience
Prior to joining BCIT, Quang Vo was a full-time Biomedical Engineering lecturer at the Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology (National University) for five years. His major courses included Medical Imaging, Sensors and Measurements, Medical Devices, Biomedical Engineering laboratory and Physics Laboratory. He also supervised students to do their projects. Before that, he was employed by the Children’s Hospital 1 as a Biomedical Engineer and was then appointed as the Manager of Biomedical Engineering Unit for over ten years. His responsibilities included the repair, maintenance, management, and troubleshooting on a wide variety of biomedical and electronic devices. During this employment, he received advanced and factory-level training in the field and worked in Denmark at various companies, schools, and hospitals including Rigshospitalet (Denmark´s leading specialized hospital). His PhD study provided him with opportunities to mentor students, to work with different diagnostic imaging modalities and to collaborate with clinicians and staff at the Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital and Stollery Children’s Hospital. He is currently an Engineer in Training with APEGA.
In addition to teaching, Quang Vo is also interested in research. One of his primary research interests involves developing a 3D ultrasound method to assess and monitor the true severity of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis and predict the progression of scoliosis. He published his research in international scientific journals and proceedings, one of which was awarded Open Finalist award by the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (USA).
Education
Quang Vo obtained his PhD degree in Biomedical Engineering from the University of Alberta. He also received his Master’s degree in Laser Technology and Biomedical Engineering, and Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from the Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology.
### Nicky Land
Program Assistant School of Health Sciences Tel: 604-432-8429 Email: nland@bcit.ca
### Advisory committee
Our Advisory Committee is made up of industry professionals from across Canada including:
- Miguel Antonio , Interior Health Authority
- Nikolai Dechev , University of Victoria
- Kris Dickie , Clarius Mobile Health
- Kelly Kobe , Alberta Health Services
- Pej Namshirin , Vancouver General Hospital
- Scott Nelson , Northern Health Authority
- Jason Ooi , Siemens Healthineers
- Carol Park , Lower Mainland Biomedical Engineering
- Rachel Patenaude , Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
- Justin Pezzin , Niel Squire Society
- Martin Poulin , Island Health
- Sandra Swanson , Providence Health Care
- Justin Whyte , GE Healthcare
## Continuing Education
Graduates from the BCIT Biomedical Engineering Program may continue their education in one of the following pathways (note that laddering into these programs is not automatic, students have to apply to these programs for admission):
### Bachelor of Technology Degree in Technology Management – BCIT School of Transportation; and Master of Technology MBA Degree – Simon Fraser University
This flexible learning (part-time) baccalaureate degree aims to expand professional knowledge, management skills and attributes for the roles as supervisors and managers in technical organizations.
Upon completion of the bachelor degree, Technology Management graduates can choose to enroll in the Simon Fraser University’s Master of Technology (MOT) MBA program, and have the option to complete the degree in one year full-time, or two years part-time.
See entrance requirements and information on the Program website .
### The Bachelor of Technology in Electronics, School of Energy, BCIT
This flexible learning (part-time) baccalaureate degree is eligible to BMET diploma graduates who wish to complete an engineering degree while working and to pursue registration as a Professional Engineer. Visit the BTech Electronics program website for details.
### The Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering at BCIT
The BEng (Electrical) is a four year BCIT program accredited by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB). The program is designed to provide a pathway to registration as a Professional Engineer in BC. BMET Diploma graduate will have advanced placement in this program. Contact the BCIT BMET Program Head for more information.
### Master Degrees (M.Eng., or M.A.Sc.) in Biomedical Engineering, School of Biomedical Engineering, University of British Columbia
BMET diploma graduates who have a bachelor degree in science or engineering are eligible to apply to enter the SMBE MEng (Biomedical) or MASc (Biomedical Engineering) Programs .
### Other Continuing Education Opportunities at BCIT
See BCIT Flexible Learning
## Contact Us
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
