URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/civil-engineering-bachelor-of-engineering-full-time-8660beng/
Title: Civil Engineering
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering Full-time School of Construction and the Environment
## Overview
Note: The September 2026 intake is now closed for new applications. Applications for re-admission may still be submitted. Applications for the September 2027 intake will be accepted starting October 1, 2026.
Delivery: in person. See details .
The BCIT Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) in Civil Engineering prepares students for professional engineering practice. With a focus on developing strong skills in engineering science and design, communications, and management, the program presents many opportunities to develop critical thinking, problem solving and creative abilities.
A Diploma in Civil Engineering credential is conferred after the first two years of academic study and, if you meet the continuation requirements, a Bachelor of Engineering in Civil Engineering is conferred upon successful completion of academic year four.
### Civil Engineering Bachelor of Engineering
Dipl.T./B.Eng. All Diploma students must apply for the Bachelor of Engineering in Civil Engineering degree program. See entry requirements.
↓ | ↓
Option to exit after Year 2 with the Dipl.T. | To continue onto Years 3 and 4, see continuation requirements.
↓
B.Eng. Bachelor of Engineering in Civil Engineering awarded after completing Years 3 and 4 of the program.
Civil engineering is a diverse, rewarding and challenging profession. Civil engineers and technologists team together to plan, design, construct and maintain road and rail transportation systems, port and airport facilities, bridges, tunnels, dams, and buildings of all types; water, gas and oil pipelines; energy-generating facilities, water, air and waste treatment plants, to name but a few of their activities in an ever-expanding field of endeavour. Civil engineers are, to a great extent, the designers, builders and custodians of society’s built environment as well as stewards of the natural environment.
### The Program
The BEng in Civil Engineering is composed of four years of full-time academic study.
The first two years of the degree program present a broad, practical overview of the field of civil engineering, with engineering fundamentals stressed and reinforced across the curriculum. You will receive an abundance of learning opportunities to apply these fundamentals to the solution of real-world design scenarios that would be encountered by both technologists and engineers. Throughout the program, we will present opportunities to strengthen your graphical, written, and oral communication skills. You will spend a significant amount of time on hands-on training in material testing, surveying, manual and computer-aided drafting, and receive instruction in the use of engineering software tools. You will receive a Diploma in Civil Engineering credential upon successful completion of the first two years of academic study within this degree program.
If you meet the continuation requirements, you may continue into the final two years of the degree program which are academically rigorous. We will thoroughly investigate the theoretical foundations of civil engineering science and design topics. At the same time, you will apply the practical civil engineering knowledge you have gained in course assignments and project work. You will also be challenged to view the engineer’s role from an interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary perspective. You will learn about the role of the engineer in project and construction management and enrich your educational experience with complementary studies courses relating to social sciences and the humanities. To further develop your engineering skills for professional practice, you will work with classmates to complete a team-based capstone design project.
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
All applications go through a competitive, two-step process. We recommend that you submit your application early . All supporting documents must be submitted by the application deadline to be considered.
Applications are accepted:
- October 1st* to February 15th*
- February 16th* to April 15th*
This program has multiple application deadlines . A limited number of seats will be offered after the first application deadline. Applicants who do not receive an offer at the first deadline will be reconsidered at the final deadline and will receive an admission decision at that time.
### Entrance requirements
Admission to this program is competitive. In 2022, high school applicants met entrance requirements in mathematics, sciences, and communications. Post-secondary applicants also completed courses in a related field.
Competitive Entry: Two-step process
Admission is competitive and will be offered to the most qualified applicants.
Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements
- High school graduation
- English language proficiency: Category 1 – English Studies 12 (73%) or equivalent
- Math: one of the following: Pre-Calculus 12 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses
- Chemistry 11 (73%)
- Physics 12 (73%)
- One approved Grade 12 academic course [PDF] (73%)
- Complete the following form for submission with your online application: Mandatory Applicant Questionnaire [PDF] : This form will be used with other entrance requirements in the competitive selection for the program.
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
Once Admissions confirms that you have met the entrance requirements, please continue to provide additional documentation to demonstrate your ongoing academic progress.
Step 2: Department assessment
All applications that meet the minimum entrance requirements will be reviewed by the program area at the application deadline. Admission is competitive and will be offered to the most qualified applicants. Applicant qualification will be ranked based on the following preferences:
- Academic success including consistency, grades above the minimum requirements, and/or success at a post-secondary level
- Requirements completed within the last five years
- Complete and up-to-date academic records
Note that continuation beyond Year 2 of the program is subject to conditions as outlined in the section below.
### Continuation requirements
Continuation in this program is highly competitive. Successful applicants completed the Civil Engineering Technology Diploma at BCIT with an average of over 70% and exceeded entrance requirements.
The BEng in Civil Engineering is a four-year full-time professional program that includes a Diploma in Civil Engineering conferred upon successful completion of the first two years (Levels 1 through 4) of the program.
Continuation into Level 5 (third year) is only available to students who have completed the following:
- BCIT Diploma in Civil Engineering
- CHEM 6020 and MATH 6010
- Minimum 70% continuation GPA
- 300 hours of practical work experience accumulated after starting the program
BCIT Civil Engineering students intending to continue directly from Level 4 into Level 5 in the same calendar year must meet the continuation requirements stated above and submit the following by email to the Civil Engineering Student Coordinator :
- A continuation confirmation form (available upon request from the Student Coordinator).
- Practical Work Experience form [PDF] and supporting Attachment #1, within the first two weeks of classes in Level 5.
If you are a BCIT Civil Engineering Diploma recipient and have left the program for more than 4 months*, you must meet the continuation requirements stated above and:
- Apply for re-admission to Level 5 of the Civil Engineering program between October 1st and June 1st (or next business day).
- Include a completed Practical Work Experience form [PDF] and supporting Attachment #1 with your application.
Continuation is based on seat availability. If the number of those seeking to enter Level 5 exceeds available seats, BCIT will select those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
Application for re-admission into Level 5 of the program where the applicant has taken a break from academic study exceeding two years will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
If you have questions about continuation into Level 5, please contact the Student Coordinator by email or by phone at 604-451-6854.
### Recommended for success
You'll significantly improve your chances of success in the Civil Engineering program if you come prepared. You should be willing to put in long hours and work cooperatively with fellow students. Students are strongly encouraged to complete all work early, attend all classes, labs and tutorials, take thorough notes, ask questions, manage your time effectively, and seek help from instructors and/or fellow students. There is great value in honest self-assessment to identify and address both your strengths and weaknesses.
Regarding preparation, only you can know if your basic communications, mathematics, and physics skills honestly reflect the prerequisites for acceptance. At a minimum, you should be able to:
- Write a simple, clear, coherent paragraph that contains few or no grammatical or spelling errors.
- Assemble a sequence of paragraphs to relate a coherent story.
- Express yourself verbally so that you are easily understood.
- Write or print clearly enough so that others can understand your work.
- State the difference between a scalar and a vector quantity.
- State the difference between mass and force.
- Describe the relationship between distance, velocity, and acceleration and their respective units.
- Solve problems of static equilibrium.
- Convert any quantity from one unit system to another given the appropriate conversion factor.
- Visualize simple objects in three dimensions (do you have good spatial skills?).
- Isolate an unknown variable in an algebraic expression using common algebraic manipulations for sums, differences, products, fractions, and exponents.
- Solve two equations with two unknowns.
- Write fundamental theorems of Euclidian geometry.
- Work with similar triangles and with radian measure.
- Use trigonometric functions to solve for unknown angles and sides of a right-angled triangle.
- Use the sine and cosine laws to solve for unknown angles and sides of a triangle that is not right-angled.
- Determine areas and volumes of common geometric shapes.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Students enrolled in this program must complete the mandatory work component to qualify for graduation.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program currently meets the PGWP eligibility requirements based on study program - graduates with a bachelor’s degree and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP. There are no field of study requirements (CIP) for graduates with a bachelor’s degree.
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
Note: Only the January TE intake includes the Grade 12 equivalent courses required to meet the BCIT Civil Engineering entrance requirements.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
Note: This section does not apply for entry to Level 5 of the program. For specific direction on entry to Level 5, please see Continuation Requirements .
Engineering Transfer Students
If you have completed equivalent engineering-related courses (e.g. within an engineering transfer program), you may be eligible to apply for transfer credit. You will still be required to complete civil-specific courses within the first-year curriculum ; please apply to Level 1.
### Re-admission
If you have previously completed part of this program at BCIT and wish to re-enter full-time study at an advanced level, you can apply for re-admission.
Submit a Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF] with your online application showing proof of completion of (or registration in) all courses (or equivalents) in all levels below the level to which you are applying (e.g., applicants to level 3 must have completed all courses in levels 1 and 2). If you are applying for re-admission to level 2, you must also demonstrate the potential to succeed in the program. Contact the Student Coordinator for guidance.
Applications for re-admission to levels 2-4 and 6-8 are accepted throughout the year. Please note that such applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
Note that applications for re-admission into any level of the program following a break from academic study exceeding two years will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Questions? Contact the Student Coordinator by email or by phone at 604-451-6854.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
## Costs & Supplies
Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)
The Department of Civil Engineering is participating in an ongoing pilot project where all incoming Level 1 and Level 5 (Year 1 and Year 3) students and all continuing Level 3 and Level 7 (Year 2 and Year 3) students are required to bring a computing device meeting minimum requirements for use during courses in the program. As a student you will be able to securely connect through a web browser to a BCIT managed “virtual desktop” where computing applications for courses will be available. This virtual desktop is accessible both on campus and remotely, and may be used within particular courses for instruction purposes. No additional software will need to be installed on your computing device.
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### September 2024 cohort matrix
The Civil Engineering program has undergone a curriculum change, effective for the September 2025 intake. If you began this program prior to September 2025, please refer to the September 2024 Cohort Matrix [PDF] for your second-year program matrix.
### Class hours
8:30 am to 5:30 pm, Monday through Friday.
### Program matrix
Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
CIVL 1012 | Introduction to Civil Engineering ​This course provides a general overview of the engineering profession with emphasis on the civil engineering discipline and the role of the civil engineering team. Additional introductory lecture topics are: sustainable development, environmental and societal impact, the project development process, standards and codes, engineering ethics and general and workplace health and safety. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.0
CIVL 1020 | Statics This course presents a thorough introduction to the relationship between applied loads and the resultant support reactions and internal forces developed in statically determinate members and structures. Topics include classification of force systems, equilibrium equations, support conditions, freebody diagrams, support reactions, truss analysis by the methods of joints and sections, analysis of pinned plane frames, geometric properties of sections, distributed loading, and load, shear force and bending moment diagrams for beams. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
CIVL 1024 | Graphical Communication 1 ​This course presents an overview of fundamental graphical techniques necessary for plan reading and production of elementary engineering drawings. Subject materials for the course are drawn from the civil engineering industry. Engineering drawing basics will be covered in the first half of the course including use of scale and preparation of contour drawings. In the second half of the course, computer-aided drafting software will be applied to reproduce graphics from the civil engineering field. Development of graphical computer skills for communication of engineering solutions is emphasized. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
CIVL 1060 | Applied Hydrology This course presents the basic concepts and techniques needed for watershed analysis and drainage facility design. Basic observation and estimation skills are developed through worksheets, mapwork and a small field project. Fundamental concepts include rainfall intensity, runoff, catchment area, streamflow, infiltration, mass balance, snowmelt, rainfall frequency, and the hydrologic cycle. The streamflow estimation procedures presented are the rational method and the unit hydrograph. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
COMM 1142 | Communication for Civil Engineering 1 Students learn how to write letters, memos, and routine email messages. They learn to write clear and concise sentences and paragraphs and to make documents easily accessible through headings, lists and white space. They learn how to avoid some common grammatical errors in their writing. They also learn to give an oral report based on library and online research on a new development in their technology. Students also learn how to collaborate as part of a team to accomplish work related communication tasks. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 1422 | Differential Calculus for Civil Engineering Applications of technical mathematics using algebra, geometry and trigonometry concepts; introduction of the derivative and the differentiation rules; applied optimization problems with civil engineering content. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
PHYS 1192 | Physics for Civil Engineering 1 Extends the student's abilities to apply physical principles and the laws of physics to work in civil engineering. The course takes a calculus based approach with a focus on problem solving, reporting experimental data with appropriate significant figures, analysing graphical information, and the study of kinematics, dynamics, equilibrium, stress, strain, work and energy, conservation of energy, linear momentum and collisions, rotational motion, and simple machines. Assigned problems will provide practice in problem-solving techniques and enhance the understanding of the concepts. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
SURV 1130 | Surveying for Civil Engineering 1 SURV 1130 introduces some basic principles of field surveying and surveying terminology. The first component of the course uses differential levels to familiarize students with field notes, instrument care, setting up, mathematical checks on closure and instrument calibration. The principles and procedures for benchmark levelling and detail levelling will be covered. The course will then introduce distance measurement with steel tapes and total stations. Trigonometric levelling with vertical angles and slope distances will be covered along with grade calculations, stationing and cut or fill determination. Procedures for using total stations will be introduced near the end of the term. The course also introduces the types of errors occurring in differential levelling, angular measurement and distance measurement. Proper care of the equipment and safety awareness are emphasized throughout the course. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Level 2 (20 weeks) | Credits
CIVL 2020 | Mechanics of Materials 1 This course presents a thorough introduction to the relationship between applied loads and the resulting stresses and deformations produced in common structural elements. Topics include concepts of stress and strain, mechanical behaviour and testing of construction materials, elementary design principles using allowable stresses and factors of safety, analysis of statically determinate and indeterminate axially loaded bars, thermal stresses, moments of inertia, bending and shear stresses in beams, shear flow, beam deflections, column buckling, combined stresses, stress transformations and Mohr's circle. A laboratory component is included in the delivery of this course. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 1020 course outline | 6.5
CIVL 2024 | Graphical Communication 2 Through the medium of computer-aided drafting software, students continue to reproduce graphics examples from the civil engineering field. AutoCAD and other design software will be applied as a graphical tool to perform engineering modeling, solve civil engineering design problems, and produce design drawings. Applications in various civil engineering fields (municipal, structural, etc.) will be studied and investigated. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 1024 course outline | 2.5
CIVL 2025 | Applied Hydraulics This course covers topics in pipe flow and open-channel flow hydraulics. Students apply hydraulic principles to analyze and design pipe-pump systems for water distribution and other purposes and to analyze steady flow in open channels. The course begins with a review of fluid properties, hydrostatic pressure, and hydrostatic forces. Pipe-pump system design is then developed through the study of continuity, Bernoulli's equation, energy and hydraulic grade lines, head losses, pump characteristics and selection, cavitation, network analysis, forces in pipes, and basic cost analysis. Fundamental concepts required for the analysis and design of open channel systems with steady flow follows: topics include normal flow (the Manning Equation), energy principles, chokes, varied flow profiles, and control structures. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 1020 and CIVL 1060 course outline | 5.5
CIVL 2026 | Construction Materials This course presents the basic knowledge required to design Portland cement concrete and asphalt concrete mixes and conduct quality control tests. It also provides a fundamental knowledge of pavement design and introduces pavement data collection and condition assessment techniques. The course is delivered through lectures and laboratory sessions. Topics include cements, water/cement ratio, admixtures, concrete properties, manufacturing, placing, finishing, curing, and inspection techniques as per CSA A23.1 and A23.2, asphalt technology, pavements systems (flexible and rigid), stresses and strains in pavements, and asphalt mix design using Marshall method and Superpave. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
COMM 2242 | Communication for Civil Engineering 2 Students write job application letters and resumes and practice job interviews. They also write short reports and indirect messages common in the civil engineering field. In addition, students complete a semi-formal letter-proposal, as well as give a persuasive oral report on a group project. Students practice skills needed to collaborate with others in producing technical documents. Prerequisite(s): 65% in COMM 1142 course outline | 4.0
MATH 2422 | Integral Calculus for Civil Engineering A continuation of the differential calculus that was presented in MATH 1422 and an introduction to integral calculus. Applications of derivatives involving implicit functions, related rates, approximations, optimization and curve sketching are covered. Antiderivatives and definite integrals are introduced, along with applications related to areas, volumes, centroids, arc lengths, surface areas, fluid pressure, work, moments of inertia, beam loads, shear force and bending moment. The various techniques of integrations are studied, and the solution of linear differential equations is introduced. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1422 course outline | 6.0
MATH 2423 | Introductory Statistics for Civil Engineering ​An introduction to statistical analysis with topics including the organization and graphical presentation of data, basic summary statistics such as mean, standard deviation. Elements of probability theory as well as Normal distribution are introduced. ​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1422 course outline | 0.5
PHYS 2192 | Physics for Civil Engineering 2 Physics 2192 will continue to apply physical principles and the laws of physics to work in civil engineering. This course is a calculus based survey of fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, electricity and magnetism appropriate for scientists and engineers. Topics include: fluids at rest and in motion, viscosity, calorimetry, thermal expansion and stresses, simple and damped harmonic motion, standing waves, resonance, electric field and potential, DC circuits, magnetism, induction, and AC circuits. A section on the application of geophysical exploration techniques used in the field is included. Prerequisite(s): PHYS 1192 course outline | 6.5
SURV 2230 | Surveying for Civil Engineering 2 Covers horizontal angle and bearing measurement and calculation; survey computations on a simple plane; computations and adjustments of traverses; trigonometric levelling; horizontal curves; road and building layout; areas of cross-sections and plans, volume calculations; introduction to the total station; detail survey and elevation layout. Prerequisite(s): SURV 1130 course outline | 4.0
Level 3 (15 weeks) | Credits
CIVL 3012 | Sustainability in Engineering ​The course provides an overview of the social and environmental issues that have local and global significance and the relationship between these issues and engineering practice. Topics include indigenous consultation and engagement, climate change, environmental pollution problems and their causes, site assessment and remediation, the impacts of the built environment on social, economic and environmental systems, sustainable engineering, and life cycle analysis in the context of the design, planning and management of the built environment. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CIVL 1012 course outline | 2.0
CIVL 3020 | Computer Applications ​This course develops proficiency in computational tools critical to modern civil engineering practice, including Excel, VBA and Python. Students will learn to automate calculations, perform statistical analysis, solve engineering equations, and create technical documentation. Emphasis is placed on integrating these tools into civil engineering workflows such as structural design, project cost estimation, and data-driven decision-making. The course is delivered through lectures and hands-on computer lab sessions. A computer project is a mandatory component of the course.​ Prerequisite(s): CIVL 1011 and CIVL 2025 course outline | 3.0
CIVL 3033 | Construction Management 1 This course introduces the student to some of the fundamentals in managing a typical civil engineering project. Basics of tendering, components of construction contracts, and the application of typical clauses to construction related issues and contract administration. Engineering economics is also introduced covering the following topics: the time value of money, present and future value, sources and cost of financing, and economic comparison of alternatives.​ The topics of scheduling including Gantt charts, CPM methods, resource leveling, schedule crashing, and scheduling software will be discussed. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 1011 and COMM 2242 course outline | 3.0
CIVL 3041 | Soil Mechanics This course presents the basic principles of soil mechanics and testing procedures through lectures, problem-solving sessions, and laboratory work. Topics include the geotechnical design process with a focus on the role of geology, site investigation and laboratory testing, mass/volume relationships, soil classification, effective stress, permeability, consolidation, methods of subsurface investigations. ​ Prerequisite(s): CIVL 2026 and CIVL 2020 course outline | 3.5
CIVL 3050 | Road Design This course introduces the design of urban streets and rural highways according to Transportation Association of Canada guidelines and standards. Roadway classifications, right-of-way requirements, cross-section properties and vertical and horizontal design elements will be examined as the basis of geometric design. Students will prepare designs and drawings of both a typical urban street and a rural highway. Urban street design will focus on road drainage and intersection design while rural highway design will involve use of computer software to interactively adjust alignments to achieve an earthworks balance while addressing geometric constraints. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 2024 and SURV 2230 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 3052 | Municipal Engineering 1 ​This course focuses on the general concepts of municipal engineering including subdivision planning, development servicing, environmental sustainability and cost analysis. Subdivision layout, off-site services such as water distribution, storm drainage, sanitary sewage, solid waste, roadways and environmental protection forms a major component of the course. Subdivision process, re-zoning, official community planning as well as relevant legislation and local government bylaws are discussed. Servicing costs, engineering economics, life cycle costing and asset management are also covered in the course. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 2024 and CIVL 2025 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 3074 | Structural Engineering 1 CIVL 3074 is an introductory first course in structural engineering. Topics include: the structural design process; limit states design philosophy; determination of dead, occupancy, snow and wind effects according to the NBCC; load paths in structural systems; and the design of wood tension members, columns, beams and beam-columns and their connection according CSA Standard O86 (Engineering Design in Wood). The course is delivered through lectures, problem-solving sessions and project work. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 2020 course outline | 4.0
COMM 3342 | Communication for Civil Engineering 3 Communication 3342 reinforces the skills taught in COMM 2242 and further develops your writing, editing, graphic design, and oral presentation skills. Following guidelines prepared by the Civil Engineering Department, you will initiate contact with a registered professional in the civil engineering/construction industry to formulate a proposal for an appropriate industry-sponsored project to be completed in CIVL 4090. Your project will investigate a current, relevant problem for your industry sponsor. You will write and edit a formal project proposal and give a persuasive oral presentation on your project to your fellow students, advisors, and instructors. COMM 3342 also covers meeting skills, including agendas and meeting records, and writing instructions. Prerequisite(s): Completion of 1st year Civil Engineering. course outline | 2.0
MATH 3423 | Multivariable Calculus and Linear Algebra for Civil Engineering This course provides an introduction to multivariable calculus—differentiation and integration—and linear algebra. Calculus will be used in a variety of Civil engineering applications including calculating moments and centroids for three-dimensional objects, solving non-uniform distributed-loading problems, axial loading of non-uniform members and optimizing a solution to a problem involving multiple variables. The basics of linear algebra will be introduced and applied to various Civil engineering applications including matrix analysis of trusses and the stiffness matrix method. In all areas, the use of a computer to find a numerical solution to a physical problem will be emphasized using a mathematics computer software package and/or a spreadsheet program. Prerequisite(s): MATH 2422 course outline | 4.0
Level 4 (20 weeks) | Credits
CIVL 4033 | Construction Management 2 ​​Building on the knowledge acquired in the course Construction Management 1 (CIVL 3033), this course introduces the student to estimating, bidding, and managing a typical civil engineering project. Estimating topics include construction equipment, planning, quantity take-offs, costing, and estimating software. Construction safety is emphasized utilizing resources provided by WorkSafeBC. ​ Prerequisite(s): CIVL 3033 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 4041 | Geotechnical Analysis and Design ​This course applies the knowledge gained in CIVL 3041 to a variety of geotechnical problems. Material is delivered through a combination of lectures, problem-solving sessions and hands-on labs. Topics include Darcy's law, one-dimensional groundwater flow, analysis of seepage and hydrostatic forces using flow nets, compaction and the Proctor test, the strength concept in soil mechanics, analysis of slope stability, evaluation of forces acting on retaining walls, and the estimation of soil bearing capacity and its effect on the design of shallow foundations.​ Prerequisite(s): CIVL 3041 course outline | 5.5
CIVL 4052 | Municipal Engineering 2 This course builds on the knowledge gained in the Municipal Engineering 1 and Road Design courses. Students will prepare detailed designs of storm and sanitary sewerage systems and analyze a water distribution network for a residential subdivision layout. Topics also include culvert analysis and erosion protection. The application of current local design criteria for water and sewer system design, in addition to the complete terminology of appurtenances used, will prepare students for careers in design and construction of municipal infrastructure. Emphasis will be placed on the preparation of plan and profile drawings for servicing design, together with calculations and design tabulations to meet industry standards. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 3050 and CIVL 3052 course outline | 5.5
CIVL 4074 | Structural Engineering 2 This second structural engineering course builds on the material presented in CIVL 3074. Topics include: structural indeterminacy, qualitative and approximate analysis of beams and frames; design of structural steel tension members, columns, beams and beam-columns in accordance with CSA Standard S16 (Design of Steel Structures); and the design of reinforced concrete beams, one-way slabs, columns, footings and retaining walls in accordance CSA Standard A23.3 (Design of Concrete Structures). The course is delivered through lectures, problem-solving sessions, laboratory work and project work. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 3074 course outline | 6.0
CIVL 4090 | Industry Project ​After submitting an acceptable project proposal in COMM 3342, the student is assigned a faculty advisor. The student is required to meet periodically with the faculty advisor and/or the industry contact, and submit the finished project to both the industry contact and faculty advisor. Prerequisite(s): COMM 4442 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) Completion of Level 3 Civil Engineering courses. course outline | 4.0
COMM 4442 | Communication for Civil Engineering 4 In Communication 4442, you will build on the skills you learned in Communication 3342. You will plan and write a progress report and a formal report for your industry-sponsored project, as well as any related documentation for the project as needed. You will also design and create a static display and present the project orally with professional visuals. You will also prepare a professional functional resume and letter of application. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Level 3 Civil Engineering. course outline | 2.5
Choose two of the following electives:*
CHEM 6020 | Chemistry for Civil Engineering This course commences with stoichiometry and chemical reactions and then continues with the study of the following topics: gases, chemical kinetics, properties of matter, liquids and solids, phase and aqueous equilibria, electrochemistry, organic chemistry and selected applications of chemistry to the field of civil engineering. The lab component of this course consolidates lecture material with particular emphasis on safety awareness and application. This hands-on laboratory will require the students to demonstrate teamwork, leadership and problem solving skills. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Level 3 Civil Engineering with a minimum GPA of 67.5% calculated using grades obtained in student’s first attempt of all courses from Levels 2 and 3. course outline | 4.0
CIVL 4024 | Land Development Modeling This course provides an introduction to the creation and management of projects and associated drawings using land development software. Topics include basic operations with land development software, terrain modeling, parcel definition and horizontal and vertical alignment. The course includes a component of field survey work to obtain input data for subsequent land development modeling. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 3050 and CIVL 3052 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 4053 | Traffic Engineering Fundamentals This course presents fundamentals of traffic engineering with particular reference to the urban scene. Topics include road systems and safety, driver, vehicle and traffic stream characteristics, highway and intersection capacity, intersection and parking layout, data collection techniques and traffic control. Students will be introduced to the use of traffic planning and analysis software to perform capacity analysis and to evaluate and develop coordinated signal timing plans. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 3050 and CIVL 3052 course outline | 4.0
MATH 6010 | Advanced Mathematics for Civil Engineering 1 This engineering mathematics course primarily covers vector calculus but includes material on series, complex numbers and linear algebra and introduces Taylor and Fourier series. The calculation and application of eigenvalues and eigenvectors are detailed. Both analytical solution techniques and computer algebra software solutions are presented. Civil engineering applications are emphasized. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Level 3 Civil Engineering with a minimum GPA of 67.5% calculated using grades obtained in student’s first attempt of all courses from Levels 2 and 3. course outline | 4.0
*To be eligible for Level 5, students must successfully complete CHEM 6020 and MATH 6010 and meet the additional continuation requirements .
Level 5 (15 weeks) | Credits
CIVL 7012 | Computational Methods This course investigates a variety of computational methods to facilitate the numerical solution of engineering problems. Emphasis is placed on problem formulation, solution algorithms and programming application. Topics include: solution of non-linear equations (root-finding) systems of linear equations, optimization, curve fitting, numerical integration, and solving ordinary differential equations. Prerequisite(s): MATH 7010 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7021 | Mechanics of Materials 2 This second mechanics of materials course covers advanced topics including composite beams, unsymmetrical bending, plastic bending, beams on elastic foundations, curved beams, shear flow and torsion in closed and open sections, and elastic stability. Prerequisite(s): Level 5 Civil Engineering standing (or higher). course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7060 | Environmental Engineering This course provides an overview of environmental engineering, applying the scientific principles, concepts, and methodologies required to maintain and improve the natural and built environment. Topics include the transport and fate of contaminants in various media (air, water and soil), municipal and industrial (liquid and solid) waste management, contaminated sites, environmental law, principles of environmental assessment and environmental management. Case studies will be presented to give relevant application to these topics. Prerequisite(s): Level 5 Civil Engineering standing (or higher). course outline | 3.0
CIVL 7070 | Structural Analysis This structural analysis course focuses primarily on methods of analysis for indeterminate structures. Topics include influence lines, energy methods, slope-deflection method, matrix structural analysis, limit load analysis and structural modeling using commercially available analysis software. The goal is to derive and apply basic principles of statically determinate and indeterminate structures and use approximate methods, force methods, and displacement methods for statically indeterminate trusses, beams, and frames to determine deformations, internal forces, and external reactions.​ Prerequisite(s): Level 5 Civil Engineering standing (or higher). course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7355 | The Science of Electronic Sensing and Measurement ​This course provides a foundational understanding of the science which underlies electronic sensing and measurement technology. Building on fundamental physical principles from earlier courses in the program, students will be introduced to the science and terminology of transducers as they apply to various physical systems. Students will investigate the operating principles of various fluid pressure, ground and surface water level using conductivity and acoustics, inclination/tilt, strain, temperature, and density (for soil and aggregate) sensors. The depth of coverage will ensure the students understand how to interpret sensor performance properties and inherent limitations. Also included will be an introduction to signal conditioning/processing and digital transmission of data using common communications standards as well as sensor selection and calibration. Labs will allow students to investigate and evaluate various sensors and their performance. Prerequisite(s): Level 5 Civil Engineering standing (or higher). course outline | 3.0
MATH 7010 | Advanced Mathematics for Civil Engineering 2 This engineering mathematics course covers ordinary and partial differential equations. Both analytical solution techniques and computer algebra software solutions are presented. Civil engineering applications are emphasized. Prerequisite(s): Level 5 Civil Engineering standing (or higher). course outline | 4.0
Level 6 (15 weeks) | Credits
CIVL 7001 | Engineering and Society This course provides a general overview of civil engineering and its role in society. Topics include the built environment, regulation of engineering practice in Canada, sustainable development, equity and ethics and civil engineering challenges for the 21st century. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
CIVL 7011 | Uncertainty in Civil Engineering This course covers probability theory, statistical analysis and reliability theory as it applies specifically to civil engineering. Both analytical and numerical solution techniques are presented. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
CIVL 7020 | Fluid Mechanics and Thermal Science This course presents fundamental concepts in fluid mechanics and thermal science. Fluid mechanics topics include fluid properties, conservation laws, laminar and turbulent flow, incompressible and compressible flow, boundary layer theory, similitude and dimensional analysis. Thermal science topics include thermodynamic principles and the theory of heat transfer. Civil engineering applications are emphasized. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.5
CIVL 7022 | Structure and Properties of Materials* This course provides an introduction to the structure and behaviour of engineering materials (alloys, ceramics, polymers and composites). Topics include classification of materials, structure and mechanical properties of engineering materials, monotonic and cyclic stress-strain behaviour, fracture, fatigue, creep, corrosion, analytical modeling of material behaviour and testing procedures to ascertain material properties. Prerequisite(s): Level 5 Civil Engineering standing (or higher). course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7040 | Geotechnical Engineering 1 Building on the theory of soil mechanics and geotechnical design presented in Year 2, this course begins with a review of limit states and shallow foundation design. Students are then introduced to the design of deep foundations. Subsequently, the discussion shifts to a more in-depth examination of soil shear strength, slope stability and seepage in geotechnical design and the use of industry standard geotechnical software will be introduced. Students will have the opportunity to work through a geotechnical design from analysis of borehole logs through to developing recommendations. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7092 | Civil Engineering Design ​This course considers open-ended, conceptual, preliminary and retrofit design scenarios across the field of civil engineering. Working in groups, students will be presented with the needs and objectives of a project “owner”. The students will explore options to meet those objectives, examine the feasibility of options, compare estimated costs, and prepare a design of the selected solution. The students will make oral presentations at critical stages and will produce a project brief, engineering drawings, and possibly a physical model. The course will be team-taught by Civil Engineering faculty. The course will introduce foundational topics related to project delivery and broader interdisciplinary concepts. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Level 5 Civil Engineering. course outline | 4.0
Choose one of the following Liberal Studies electives:
LIBS 7005 | Technology, Invention and Power From ancient Greek myth to modern science fiction, Western culture's depictions of the power of technology have shaped our contemporary views. By analysing selected works of literature, film, TV and Internet sites from different historical periods, students will explore continuities and changes in depictions of technology and its transformative powers. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7007 | Technology and Society This course will explore the interrelationship between technology and society. The course will focus on how societal forces shape and are shaped by the meanings, development, spread, and uses of technology. Concepts, perspectives, and arguments from the social sciences and humanities will be studied and applied to analyze connections between society and technology. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
Successful completion of the following is required to continue to Level 7: 700 total hours of practical work experience
Level 7 (15 weeks) | Credits
CIVL 7023 | Engineering Dynamics This course applies the principles of engineering mechanics to the study of systems under dynamic loading. Topics include: particle and rigid-body dynamics, single-degree-of-freedom vibrations and modal analysis of discrete systems. The theory presented is applied to civil engineering structures. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7033 | Project Management in Civil Engineering ​This course equips civil engineering students with the project management skills needed to succeed in Canada's construction and infrastructure sectors. Grounded in core theory and real-world case studies, it traces the full project lifecycle — from initiation and scope definition through execution, contract administration, and closeout — within Canada's distinct legal, contractual, and organizational frameworks. Students gain practical fluency in contractor compensation, procurement, supply chains, and the major delivery models. The course tackles the complexities that arise mid-project, including risk management, change management, claims, and the legal instruments — liens, bonds, and insurance. The course introduces digital tools such as Building Information Modelling (BIM) and Virtual Design and Construction (VDC). It also covers application of sustainability and life ‑ cycle asset management for responsible infrastructure stewardship. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
CIVL 7062 | Water Quality Engineering This course covers the principles involved in the design and operation of water and wastewater treatment facilities. Topics include the quality of water supplies, characteristics of wastewater, estimation of water consumption and sewage generation, chemical and physical treatment of water for drinking purposes, wastewater treatment and effluent and sludge disposal. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 7060 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7072 | Design of Concrete and Masonry Structures This course covers advanced topics related to the behaviour and design of reinforced concrete and masonry structures. Topics include design of reinforced concrete members for flexure, shear and torsion per the CSA A23.3 General Method, serviceability considerations (including deflection and crack control); analysis and design of two-way slab systems; design of slender columns, moment-resisting frame systems and wall structures and the design of masonry structures for flexure and axial load according to CSA S304.1.​ Prerequisite(s): 55% in CIVL 7021 and 55% in CIVL 7022 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7089 | Capstone Design Proposal In CIVL 7089 students must define and plan the project they will undertake in CIVL 7090 Capstone Design Project. Students form teams that operate like a project team in an engineering firm, and each team is managed by a self-assigned team leader. Students choose a real-life engineering design problem and are required to liaise with an industry contact. Each team is required to prepare a detailed project proposal outlining the scope of work, technical methodology, team organization and structure. To simulate the realities of a professional environment the proposal includes the project schedule and identifies the team members responsible for specific tasks. The design proposals are reviewed and subject to the approval of Civil Engineering Faculty. Course lectures topics include design project management, team-building/soft skills development, and proposal writing. Prerequisite(s): Completion of all levels up to and including Level 6 Civil Engineering. course outline | 1.0
LIBS 7025 | Thinking in Humanities & Social Sciences "The same exactness” should not be expected in all areas of study (Aristotle, The Ethics). Each term this course will aim to put this longstanding methodological principle to the test, by examining a common issue from the standpoint of several disciplines within the humanities and social sciences. Instructors (typically three) from different disciplinary backgrounds will lead students in seminar discussion, debate, and problem solving. The overriding issue to be examined may vary from term to term, as will the combination of disciplines or fields of study – e.g. history of ideas, evolutionary psychology, sociology, philosophy, or cognitive science. The particular topic connecting the chosen disciplines or fields will have an historical dimension, and refer to recent research in the humanities and social sciences. Through this cross-disciplinary approach, seminar participants will be encouraged to think about the benefits and limits of thinking within the methods and approaches of a specific discipline. They will also be encouraged to consider the inevitable trade-offs between scope and precision in each discipline when applied to cross-disciplinary issues. Examples of cross-disciplinary issues may include the following: our dual genetic-cultural origins; differences between computational and human thinking; morality as a function of biological and social influences; the nature and limits of human autonomy; the development of the self in civil society. Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
MINE 7041 | Geology This course provides an introduction to earth processes and materials from a civil engineering perspective. Topics include plate tectonics, mineral and rock formation, geological time, rocks structures including faults, surficial processes (glaciers, river, groundwater and shoreline systems), and earthquake causes, wave propagation, magnitudes and intensities. Engineering design implications of geological features such rock structures, surficial material and earthquakes will be discussed. Prerequisite(s): Level 5 Civil Engineering Standing (or higher). course outline | 3.0
Choose one of the following technical electives:
CIVL 7063 | Water Resource Engineering This course investigates a wide range of water resource issues, methods of analysis and solutions. Topics include drainage, flood control, reservoir analysis, hydro-electric power generation, well hydraulics, irrigation and hydrodynamic modeling. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 7020 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7073 | Design of Steel Structures This course covers various topics on the behaviour and design of steel members and structures. Topics include beam-columns, structural stability, plate girders, composite design, plastic design, connections, and fatigue. Prerequisite(s): 55% in CIVL 7021 and 55% in CIVL 7022 course outline | 4.0
Level 8 (15 weeks) | Credits
CIVL 7030 | Civil Engineering Contracts and Law ​​This course covers fundamental aspects of engineering law and contracts. Topics include sources of law, aboriginal and indigenous law, business organizations, tendering and contract administration, intellectual property, environmental law, municipal permitting, and bylaws, and employment law. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
CIVL 7050 | Transportation Engineering ​This course introduces the fundamentals of transportation engineering. Topics include highway capacity analysis, traffic flow and queuing theory, traffic signal operations, travel demand forecasting, and Transportation Impact Assessment (TIA). Students will apply this fundamental knowledge to real-world transportation challenges.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
CIVL 7090 | Capstone Design Project This is the capstone course of the program in which the student completes a comprehensive civil and/or structural design project. Design philosophy and methods are discussed and explored as they relate to the assigned project for the current year. The project is completed through team work. Each team will submit an engineering report and make an oral presentation. A faculty and/or industry advisor will provide guidance on the scope and direction of the project work as warranted. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 7089 with a prerequisite of S, and at least 18 Level 7 credits + 65% GPA in Levels 5-7 course outline | 6.0
OPMT 7031 | Engineering Economics ​This course covers economic and non-monetary considerations for making decisions on public and private sector civil and electrical engineering systems. Topics include rational decision making, cost concepts, time-value of money, cost-benefit analysis, and risk and uncertainty. Prerequisite(s): 55% in CIVL 7011 or 50% in MATH 7510 or S in OPMT 7000 CIVL 7011 - Only for students in the BEng Civil Engineering program; MATH 7510, OPMT 7000 - Only for students in the BEng Electrical Engineering program. course outline | 3.0
Choose two of the following technical electives:
CIVL 7042 | Geotechnical Engineering 2 This course is intended to introduce a variety of advanced topics in geotechnical engineering and to reinforce the importance and role of case histories in geotechnical engineering. It will also provide an opportunity for students to hear from local industry members in order to develop an appreciation for current geotechnical practice, and innovative design solutions, and provide examples of life-long learning opportunities. The course will be divided into several main themes, most of which will be highlighted by an industry speaker(s) and/or case history study. Writing skills and the ability to summarize and identify key points from a presentation will also be emphasized. Course topics will vary depending on recent occurrences and local projects but will likely include: a review of site investigation techniques and soil logging and their role in the overall geotechnical design process, geohazards, an introduction to critical state soil mechanics and liquefaction, ground improvement, dam / tailings dam design, geotechnical instrumentation, the observational method, and anchor design. Prerequisite(s): CIVL 7040 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7061 | Storm Water Management ​This course provides a thorough treatment of up-to-date urban storm water management practices. The focus is on the reduction of the impact of urban development on the natural hydrological cycle, flood potential, erosion, and water quality. The course presents the key components of stormwater management in urbanized settings, including legal issues, system assessment, hydraulic modeling, implementation of green storm infrastructure/low impact development and Best Management Practices, impacts of climate change stormwater systems, and monitoring of surface waters and water quality.​ Prerequisite(s): CIVL 7020 and CIVL 7060 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7074 | Analysis and Design of Timber Structures This course is designed for individuals seeking to strengthen their expertise in timber structure design. It builds upon students' analysis and design skills, with a specific focus on timber structures and nonlinear behaviors of structures. The course provides an in-depth exploration of timber structures, addressing both gravity and lateral load effects, including seismic considerations, in accordance with the National Building Code of Canada and CSA O86. Commercially available software will be used to perform nonlinear analysis and design. Additionally, students will be introduced to innovative and emerging timber products and structural systems, such as mass timber construction.​ Prerequisite(s): CIVL 7070 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7075 | Seismic Design This course investigates the response and design of structures to earthquake loading. Topics include earthquake ground motion and response of single-degree-of-freedom systems to earthquake loading, response spectra and the response spectrum analysis of multi-degree-of-freedom systems; seismic design philosophy and analysis methods per the National Building Code of Canada (NBCC); and application of capacity design. Prerequisite(s): 55% in CIVL 7023 and 55% in CIVL 7072 course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7080 | Building Science for Civil Engineering This course introduces fundamental building science principles with a focus on heat, air, and moisture transfer in buildings. Topics include environmental loads, heat transfer, psychrometrics, airflow through building components, moisture transport, condensation due to vapour diffusion and airflow, and human thermal comfort. Experimental methods to determine hygric properties of materials are addressed, including vapour permeability, isothermal sorption curves, liquid diffusivity, water absorption coefficients, and water retention curves. The theory is illustrated through application of analytical methods, such as the thermal network approach, to problems involving heat and mass transfer through building enclosure assemblies and to energy and mass balance within buildings. Concepts related to surface heat and mass transfer coefficients, sol-air temperature, clear sky long-wave radiation, thermal and moisture storage, sorption hysteresis, angle factors, and mean radiant temperature are covered. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
CIVL 7091 | Civil Engineering Applied Research Project This course provides the opportunity for a student to engage in a civil engineering applied research project. Delivery of the course is through directed studies under the guidance of a faculty advisor. Project work can be conducted on an individual basis or in a team format. Students are encouraged to seek out a prospective faculty advisor, which must be secured before registration is permitted. Prerequisite(s): Students must have faculty approval. course outline | 4.0
Cooperative Education work terms | Credits
Students in the co-op stream will complete their work terms after Level 4 (September to December), after Level 6 (May to August), and after Level 5 (January to August).
CIVL 5990 | Cooperative Education Work Term 1 ​Cooperative Education (Co-op) involves enhancing the educational experience by allowing students to apply classroom knowledge in relevant work placement experiences to develop new skills in a professional setting. The student is employed in a paid position for the duration of the Co-op Work Term placement period, where the student completes productive tasks that relate directly to the core competencies of the Civil Engineering Degree Program. The Co-op position is approved by the Co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend mandatory pre-employment seminars to enhance their employability prior to their Co-op placement and compete for job postings during the second academic term. During the work term, students are monitored by the Co-op Coordinator. Work placements allow students to network within their industry, which helps in finding employment after graduation.​ Prerequisite(s): Successful Application and Admission to the Co-op Program. course outline | 15.0
CIVL 6990 | Cooperative Education Work Term 2 ​Cooperative Education (Co-op) involves enhancing the educational experience by allowing students to apply classroom knowledge in relevant work placement experiences to develop new skills in a professional setting. The student is employed in a paid position for the duration of the Co-op Work Term placement period, where the student completes productive tasks that relate directly to the core competencies of the Civil Engineering Degree Program. The Co-op position is approved by the Co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend mandatory pre-employment seminars to enhance their employability prior to their Co-op placement and compete for job postings during the second academic term. During the work term, students are monitored by the Co-op Coordinator. Work placements allow students to network within their industry, which helps in finding employment after graduation.​ Prerequisite(s): S in CIVL 5990 course outline | 15.0
CIVL 7990 | Cooperative Education Work Term 3 ​Cooperative Education (Co-op) involves enhancing the educational experience by allowing students to apply classroom knowledge in relevant work placement experiences to develop new skills in a professional setting. The student is employed in a paid position for the duration of the Co-op Work Term placement period, where the student completes productive tasks that relate directly to the core competencies of the Civil Engineering Degree Program. The Co-op position is approved by the Co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend mandatory pre-employment seminars to enhance their employability prior to their Co-op placement and compete for job postings during the second academic term. During the work term, students are monitored by the Co-op Coordinator. Work placements allow students to network within their industry, which helps in finding employment after graduation.​ Prerequisite(s): S in CIVL 6990 course outline | 15.0
CIVL 8990 | Cooperative Education Work Term 4 ​Cooperative Education (Co-op) involves enhancing the educational experience by allowing students to apply classroom knowledge in relevant work placement experiences to develop new skills in a professional setting. The student is employed in a paid position for the duration of the Co-op Work Term placement period, where the student completes productive tasks that relate directly to the core competencies of the Civil Engineering Degree Program. The Co-op position is approved by the Co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend mandatory pre-employment seminars to enhance their employability prior to their Co-op placement and compete for job postings during the second academic term. During the work term, students are monitored by the Co-op Coordinator. Work placements allow students to network within their industry, which helps in finding employment after graduation.​ Prerequisite(s): S in CIVL 7990 course outline | 15.0
Total Credits: | 228.0
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
As a full-time student, you’ll learn by being immersed into a structured, highly demanding environment. Your courses will be delivered using lectures, labs, and tutorials. We’ll teach you theory in combination with its practical application, simulating an engineering office environment where possible. We’ll set a high standard and expect you to rise to meet it. Here are the conditions you’ll learn under…
- The Civil Engineering program is a four-year engineering program with an optional exit with a diploma after successful completion of academic year 2. Eligible students may continue into academic years 3 and 4 which will lead to a Bachelor of Engineering in Civil Engineering.
- The first two years run from the beginning of September to the end of May and each include a 15 week term from September through December and a 20 week term from January to the end of May.
- The final two academic years each consist of two 15 week terms; one from September to December and another from January to the end of April.
- The program is not organized on a semester intake system. The program course matrix is highly interrelated and structured, and all students take the same courses for the first three terms (Levels 1 to 3). If you don’t pass all courses in the first four terms, an extra academic year is almost always required to make up missed courses and successfully exit the program with a Diploma in Civil Engineering.
- A typical term requires that you attend 30 hours per week of classroom, laboratory, and tutorial time. The majority of students put in at least another 15 to 25 hours per week studying and working on assignments and projects. Really successful students are more likely to put in an additional 30 to 40 hours per week.
- You’ll take either 8 or 9 separate courses each term for the first two years, and then we’ll reduce it to 6 or 7 courses for the final two years. (Obviously, you’ll quickly develop time-management skills as a survival mechanism.)
- In total, then, over the first 2 years, you’ll attend some 2100 hours of classroom time, and take 32 courses prior to receiving your diploma. If you’re eligible to continue into Year 3, the following two years will add on another 1100 hours of classroom time plus another 26 courses before you receive a bachelor’s degree. Whew!
### Program length
Four years, full-time
Upon successful completion of the first two years, students will earn a Diploma in Civil Engineering . Students who meet the continuation requirements and successfully complete a further two years of full-time study will earn a BEng in Civil Engineering.
### Practical work experience requirement
All students seeking to complete the BEng in Civil Engineering must satisfy the practical work experience requirement. You can satisfy the practical work experience requirement by completing at least 700 hours of relevant work experience accumulated after starting the program. The summer periods between academic terms provide sufficient time to meet these requirements.
A continuous work period of 12 to 15 months is considered optimum because you will have the opportunity to use what you have learned and develop your skills in a real-world setting. You will also be able to clarify your academic and career goals before making elective decisions in years 3 and 4. If you wish to return to Level 5 after more than 4 months’ absence, you must apply for re-admission to the program.
What is practical work experience?
Refer to Appendix A, Part 1 of Schedule A of the current ASTTBC Bylaws . It is expected that your first 300 hours will be at Work Experience Level 1 or 2. Subsequent work experience should indicate a progression in these levels, with some tasks at Level 3 after 700 hours. You should also know that Engineers and Geoscientists British Columbia may accept up to a maximum of one year of pre-graduation experience towards the four years of engineering work experience required for registration as a Professional Engineer if it is supervised by a Canadian registered Professional Engineer and if it otherwise satisfies all of Engineers and Geoscientists BC's experience criteria.
### Grading
Levels 1-4: You must obtain a final grade of at least 50% before proceeding to the next course, with the exception of the four Communications courses, one in each level, all of which have a passing grade of 65%.
Continuation GPA: To be eligible to continue into Level 5 of the degree, you must achieve a minimum 70% continuation GPA under a full-time program load. This is calculated using grades obtained in your first attempt of all courses from Levels 2, 3, and 4, excluding CIVL 4024 and CIVL 4053, but including CHEM 6020 and MATH 6010. If you complete Levels 2, 3, and 4 in a mode other than full-time, you may also be considered for continuation into Level 5 if you meet the 70% GPA requirement.
Levels 5-8: You must obtain a 55% final grade in order to pass the course.
### Accreditation
The Civil Engineering program at BCIT leads sequentially to two credentials: a Diploma in 
Civil Engineering conferred after academic year two, and a Bachelor of Engineering in Civil 
Engineering conferred after academic year four.
The Diploma in Civil Engineering is highly regarded by employers across Canada. As a diploma holder, you will be eligible to register with Applied Technologist and Technicians of British Columbia as a trainee upon review of your transcripts and completion of a certification exam. Applicants may then apply for registration as an Applied Science Technologist after completing a minimum of two years of relevant work experience. Full information on updated application procedures can be found on the ASTTBC page.
The Bachelor of Engineering in Civil Engineering is nationally accredited by the Canadian Engineering 
Accreditation Board (CEAB). Students may apply for student membership with the Engineers and Geoscientists BC . Degree holders are eligible for Engineer-in-Training (EIT) membership 
with Engineers and Geoscientists BC.
Completion of an engineering degree and obtaining EIT enrolment with a provincial 
engineering licensing body are the first steps for all engineers towards achieving licensure 
as a Professional Engineer (PEng). Two steps remain: first, the Engineer-in-Training must 
complete a minimum of four years of satisfactory engineering work experience under the 
supervision of a registered professional engineer; secondly, the PEng candidate must pass 
the professional practice exam. As a Professional Engineer, one has the license to practice 
engineering and a seal to stamp and take responsibility for the designs and drawings one creates.
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
### Continue your education
Students exiting the Civil Engineering program after academic year two (Level 4) with a diploma may consider entering BCIT's Bachelor of Technology programs in Geographic Information Systems , Environmental Engineering , or Construction Management .
Degree graduates may pursue graduate studies in Civil Engineering, nationally or internationally. Entrance requirements typically specify a Bachelor Degree in Civil Engineering with sufficiently high academic standing.
## Graduating & Jobs
### Job Opportunities
Civil engineers plan, design, develop and manage projects for the construction or repair of various structures and infrastructures. These include buildings, roads, airports, railways, rapid transit facilities, bridges, dams, ports and coastal installations, and systems related to highway and transportation services, water distribution and sanitation. Civil engineers may also specialize in foundation analysis, building and structural inspection, surveying and municipal planning. They are employed by engineering consulting companies, municipal and other levels of government, and in many other industries. They may also be self-employed.
Under the broad umbrella of civil engineering, they can specialize as: environmental engineers; municipal or public works engineers; construction or project engineers; highway, transportation or traffic engineers; water resource or hydraulic engineers; geotechnical engineers; bridge, building, or structural engineers.
Civil technologists are employed throughout the full spectrum of civil engineering related industries. Numerous career paths exist in consulting engineering, construction, public works and the technical sales sector. Starting positions include: consulting design technologists, municipal plan checkers, construction inspectors and supervisors, detailers, technical sales representatives, material testing technicians, surveyors and CAD operators. Many experienced civil technologists have attained senior positions in organizations or started their own businesses.
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Civil Engineering
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
In addition to those listed below from the Department of Civil Engineering, you’ll also benefit from the knowledge of BCIT Faculty from other departments on campus including Mathematics, Communications, Physics, Geomatics, Liberal Studies, Chemistry and Operations Management. Faculty office locations and phone numbers are available from the BCIT Directory .
### Faculty
### Md Mahbubur Rahman, M.Sc., P.Eng.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment mahbub_rahman@bcit.ca
Work Experience
With over seven years of teaching experience, Mahbub Rahman has delivered university and college courses covering structural design, mechanics, civil engineering materials, geotechnical engineering, and Building Information Modeling (BIM). Known for his interactive, student-centered teaching approach, Mahbub excels in connecting theoretical concepts with practical applications, equipping students with the knowledge and skills needed to excel in real-world scenarios.
Complementing his academic role, Mahbub brings over six years of professional experience in Canada’s construction and consulting industries. He has contributed to diverse projects, including hospitals, clinics, commercial, industrial and residential buildings, large-scale steel bridges, geotechnical ventures, and site-specific stormwater management solutions. His roles have spanned Structural Engineer, Project Engineer, Project Lead, QA/QC Coordinator, Contract Administrator, Site Inspector, Design Reviewer, and Estimator, showcasing his versatility and depth of expertise.
Mahbub’s professional and academic interests focus on structural analysis, design, and the behavior of reinforced concrete, timber, steel, and masonry structures. He is passionate about advanced cementitious materials, concrete durability, and structural health monitoring, including repair techniques and rehabilitation of concrete structures. His expertise extends to sustainability in construction and engineering, as well as construction and project management.
Education
M.Sc., Civil Engineering, University of Manitoba, 2015 B.Sc. (Honours), Civil Engineering, Presidency University, 2010
Professional Registration
P.Eng., Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia (EGBC) P.Eng., Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of Alberta (APEGA) LEED Green Associate, U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC)
Professional Affiliations
Associate Professional – Professor, Canadian Institute of Steel Construction (CISC) Member, Structural Engineers Association of British Columbia (SEABC) Member, American Concrete Institute (ACI)
### Martin Bollo, MEng, P.Eng.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment Martin_Bollo@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Martin Bollo is a structural engineer with over twenty-five years of diverse engineering and engineering instruction experience in Canada and the United States. This experience includes full-time and part-time experience in performing structural analysis, design, detailing, and construction/ contract administration of new and seismically retrofitted building, bridge and lifeline structures.
Education
MEng, Civil (Structural) Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, 1991. Thesis Title: “Observations and Implications of Tests on the Cypress Street Viaduct Test Structure.” BASc (Honours), Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 1989
Professional Registration
P.Eng, British Columbia PE, SE, Washington and California Envision Sustainability Professional (ENV SP)
Special Interests
Martin is active in the professional community and has volunteered for the Canadian Society for Civil Engineering (CSCE), Structural Engineers Association of British Columbia (SEABC), Vancouver Structural Engineers Group (VSEGS), APEGBC DSE, APEGBC Richmond Branch, SEAONC, and other engineering-related groups. He is a past President of the VSEGS, and a founder of the SEABC Initiative Steering Committee.
One of Martin’s areas of specialty is in the field of seismic/earthquake engineering. Representative projects include seismic assessments and upgrade designs of major bridges, building and reservoirs. He visited earthquake-damaged sites in California after the 1989 Loma Prieta and 1994 Northridge earthquakes.
### Colleen Chan, PhD, P.Eng.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment Colleen_Chan@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Colleen Chan’s expertise and interests are in the area of water and wastewater treatment technologies, environmental sustainability management, solid waste management, and contaminated site remediation technologies.
Education
PhD, Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2010. Research Topic: “Optimization of Technologies for Water and Wastewater Treatment Applications, With Particular Focus on Hydrodynamic Conditions in Membrane Technologies.” MSc, Chemical Engineering, University of Alberta, 2001 BSc, Chemical Engineering, University of Alberta, 1999
Professional Registration
P.Eng., British Columbia, 2011
### Phyllis Chong, MASc, P.Eng.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment pchong26@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Phyllis Chong is a structural engineer with over 12 years of experience in engineering consulting prior to joining the faculty in the department of Civil Engineering at BCIT. Phyllis’s experience includes infrastructure and bridge engineering-related projects in Canada and the United States, where she has acted as Proposal Lead, Key Client Account Manager, Project Manager, Designer, Design Checker, and Analyst for bridge projects.
Phyllis has expertise and interest in the design of steel and concrete bridge structures, including various forms such as cable-stayed, suspension, arch, and girder bridges. She has also supported construction services for several bridge projects. Phyllis enjoys human interaction – in particular, attending professional conferences and building and fostering relationships. Through her previous managing role as a Group Lead, she provided leadership and direction to assigned staff.
Education
MASc, Civil (Structural) Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2005. Thesis Title: “A Contribution to a Practical Approach to Corrosion Protection and Coating Maintenance of Steel Bridge Structures.” BASc (Honours), Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2003
Professional Registration
P.Eng., British Columbia
### Antone Dabeet, P.Eng.
Instructor and Student Coordinator, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment adabeet@bcit.ca
Dr. Dabeet has been primarily teaching geotechnical engineering courses at the Civil Engineering Department at BCIT. With over 15 years of experience in both academic and industry settings, Dr. Dabeet has contributed to geotechnical engineering teaching and practice, working on local and international projects.
Dr. Dabeet earned their Ph.D. in Geotechnical Engineering from the University of British Columbia, where they worked on interpreting geotechnical laboratory testing results and explored the micro-mechanical behaviour of soils. Before joining BCIT, Dr. Dabeet provided geotechnical engineering services to major infrastructure projects and local developments, providing a rich real-world context to their teaching. Dr. Dabeet believes in an interactive, student-centered and practice-based approach to learning.
Dr. Dabeet is a registered Professional Engineer with Engineers and Geoscientist of British Columbia.
### Ray Daxon, DiplT
Assistant Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment rdaxon@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Ray has been working at BCIT as an Assistant Instructor in the Civil Engineering Program since June 2013.
Education
DiplT, Civil Engineering, British Columbia Institute of Technology, 2013
Professional Registration
GradTech, Applied Science Technologists and Technicians of British Columbia, 2014
### Mohammed Farooq, PhD, EIT
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment mfarooq6@bcit.ca
Work Experience Mohammed Farooq is a civil engineer with expertise in general area of Construction Materials, Effects of Flooding on Infrastructure, Sensing, and Infrastructure Internet-of-Things. His current research projects include developing carbon-friendly cement-free geopolymer materials, and development of sensors for monitoring scour at bridge foundations. Farooq has over three years of teaching experience, and has experience as a site engineer, supervising construction activities ranging from site-marking and excavation, to superstructure erection, mechanical electrical and plumbing, and finishing of low- and high-rise concrete residential units.
More information can be found on his LinkedIn profile. His list of research publications can be found on his Google Scholar profile.
Education
PhD, Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, March 2022 (Expected) MASc, Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2016 BE, Civil Engineering, BMS College of Engineering, VTU, Bangalore, India, 2013
Professional Registration Engineer-in-Training (British Columbia)
### Kian Karimi, PhD, P.Eng., PE
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment Kian_Karimi@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Dr. Karimi is a registered professional engineer in British Columbia, Canada (P.Eng.) and in the state of California, USA (PE) with over 10 years of practical experience in the consulting environment. Kian’s diverse experience encompasses design of residential, commercial and industrial buildings and infrastructure with expertise in seismic design. He has acted in the capacity of project engineer and project manager through all project phases from concept level planning to detailed design, cost estimate, tendering, contract administration and construction field inspections.
During the course of his PhD studies, Dr. Karimi studied application of Fibre Reinforced Polymers (FRP) in upgrading structures and has co-authored several technical publications in peer-reviewed journals in this area.
Education
PhD, Civil Engineering, Structural Specialization, McMaster University, Canada, 2011 Research Topic: “Performance of FRP-encased Steel-Concrete Composite Columns.” MSc, Civil Engineering, Seismic Specialization, Sharif University of Technology, Iran, 2005 BASc, Civil Engineering, Shiraz University, Iran, 2003
Professional Registrations
P.Eng., British Columbia, Canada PE, State of California, USA
### Wai Wah Ng, PhD, P.Eng.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment Wai_Wah_Ng@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Wai Wah Ng has over 12 years of water resources and civil engineering related experiences in academia, research, consulting, and government. Prior to joining BCIT, he worked with Fisheries and Oceans Canada as a Physical Scientist, Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry as a Hydrologist, Lakehead University as an Assistant Professor, University of North Dakota as a Postdoctoral Fellow, and AECOM Ltd., as a Water Resources Engineer-In-Trainee. His research interest is in the area of statistical hydrology, water resources management, and climate change with emphasis in quantitative analysis using statistical or artificial intelligence approaches. A total of 3 scientific journals, 5 book chapters, and 12 refereed conference papers/presentations were contributed.
Education
Ph.D. in Civil Engineering, University of Manitoba, 2014 M.A.Sc. in Civil Engineering, University of Waterloo, 2004 B.Eng. (First Class Standing) in Civil Engineering, Lakehead University 2002 DiplT, Civil Engineering, British Columbia Institute of Technology, 1995
Professional Registration
P.Eng., British Columbia
### Bishnu Pandey, PhD, P.Eng.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment bpandey@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Bishnu has worked as an earthquake engineering expert for more than eighteen years in North America and Asia-pacific countries. He has acted as team lead with the Canadian Association of Earthquake Engineering Team for its post-earthquake reconnaissance study of the 2015 Nepal earthquake. Bishnu has been working towards build-back-better reconstruction of Nepal joining team of government and other agencies through expert service, research and technology dissemination. At BCIT, Bishnu divides his time between lecturing, research and publication. He is also teaching for the Certificates in Structural Engineering (CSE) program for the Structural Engineers Association of BC (SEABC) and University of British Columbia (UBC). Bishnu is recipient of the 2018 BC Construction Leadership Award.
Prior to joining the faculty at BCIT, Bishnu held appointments associated with earthquake risk mitigation of developing countries with several UN agencies and other organizations like World Bank, Save the Children and UNICEF.
Education
PhD in Structural/Earthquake Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2013 MEng in Structural Engineering, University of Tokyo, 2002 BEng in Civil Engineering, Tribhuvan University, 1998
Professional Registrations
P.Eng., British Columbia Earthquake Engineering Research Institute (EERI)- member Canadian Association for Earthquake Engineering (CAEE) – member Structural Engineers Association of BC (SEABC)- Executive committee member of CSI
### Sudip Talukdar, PhD, P.Eng.
Program Head and Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment stalukdar1@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Sudip’s interests and expertise are in the fields of construction materials and structural engineering. His current research interests include developing alternative cementitious materials, investigating different non-destructive test methods for masonry blocks, and looking into the development of testing standards for shotcrete. Alongside his teaching responsibilities at BCIT, he continues to work part-time as a Field Engineer with Metro Testing Laboratories in Burnaby, BC.
More information can be found by viewing his LinkedIn profile and his list of publications .
Education
PhD, Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2013 Thesis Title: “The Effects of Global Climate Change on Carbonation Induced Corrosion of Reinforced Concrete Structures.” MASc, Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2008 BASc, Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2004
Professional Registration
P.Eng., British Columbia, 2018
Professional Affiliations
American Concrete Institute (ACI): Committee 130, Voting Member American Concrete Institute (ACI), British Columbia Chapter: Board of Directors International Association for Bridge and Structural Engineering (IABSE): Task Group 5.3, Voting Member
### Qi Zhang, PhD, P.Eng., PE
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment qi_zhang@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Qi is a professional engineer registered in British Columbia and the State of Washington. Prior to joining BCIT, he worked as a structural engineer at the consulting firm WSP in Vancouver for 6.5 years. He has worked as an analyst and designer on many major and complex bridge structures across Canada and internationally. Qi has diverse experience in the consulting industry and research projects with a focus on performance-based seismic design of bridges. He serves as a member of the Seismic Design Technical Subcommittee of the Canadian Highway Bridge Design Code, as well as a committee member of the American Concrete Institute Committee 341 Earthquake Resistant Concrete Bridges.
Education
Ph.D. in Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2021 M.A.Sc. in Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2016 B.A.Sc. in Civil Engineering, China Agricultural University, 2013
Professional Registrations
P.Eng., British Columbia P.E., State of Washington
### Haesung Ahn, PhD, P.Eng.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment haesung_ahn@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Haesung has nine years of professional experience as a Transportation Engineer in South Korea and served as a Graduate Teaching and Learning Fellow at the University of Windsor, where he mentored TAs to enhance their teaching abilities for over a year. His research has focused on cybersecurity risks associated with autonomous vehicles and privacy issues related to smart card data in transportation systems. He was honoured with the Graduate Teaching Assistant (GA/TA) Award for Educational Leadership from the University of Windsor in 2023. He won first prize at the Gordie Howe International Bridge Smart Infrastructure Pitch-off Competition, issued by the Autonomous Vehicle Innovation Network (AVIN) and Windsor-Detroit Bridge Authority (WDBA) in 2021.
Education
Ph.D. in Civil Engineering, University of Windsor, Canada, 2024 M.A.Sc. in Transportation Engineering, University of Seoul, South Korea, 2014 B.A.Sc. in Transportation Engineering, University of Seoul, South Korea, 2006
Professional Registrations
P.Eng., British Columbia
### Marco Marcantuoni, M.Eng.
Technical Staff, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment marco_marcantuoni@bcit.ca
Work Experience
After the completion of his university studies in mechanical engineering (with a special interest in energy & environment) in Italy, Marco worked as mechanical designer for an HVAC company and gained practical experience in the design of HVAC and mechanical systems. Subsequently he worked in the manufacturing of steel industry as Process Engineer. In Canada, he worked in construction as a carpenter, gaining experience in both concrete forming, cutting and assembly of steel components. After this period, he went back to work in the HVAC industry, as mechanical designer, at Integral Group here in Vancouver for about 2 years. After this experience, he started to work in the aerospace industry at Convergent Manufacturing Technologies (located at UBC campus, here in Vancouver) as laboratory technician, preparing and testing samples manufactured from composite materials.
Education
### Ali Jahanfar, PhD, P.Eng.
### Sessional Instructors
### Diane Grady, PhD, P.Eng.
Sessional Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment Diane_Grady@bcit.ca
Work Experience Diane has over 30 years’ experience as a contaminant hydrogeologist working as a consultant. Her work includes contaminated site assessments and in-situ remediation systems (chemical, biological and mechanical). In addition, she provides training involving the best field investigation techniques, including writing the soil vapour sampling section of the BC Ministry of Environment field sampling methods. Diane has her own consulting company that provides expertise to other environmental consultants.
In addition to teaching in the Civil Engineering program, Diane also teaches in the Construction Management, Construction Site Supervision, and Environmental Engineering programs.
Education Ph.D. Environmental Engineering and Science, Oregon Health and Sciences University (formerly the Oregon Graduate Institute) B.A.Sc. (Honours) University of Waterloo Dipl. Civil and Structural Engineering, British Columbia Institute of Technology
### Mohamed Essa, PhD, P.Eng.
Sessional Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment mohamed_essa@bcit.ca
Work Experience Mohamed Essa is a Sessional Instructor at BCIT and a Senior Road Safety Engineer at the British Columbia Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure. With over 15 years of experience in academia, consultancy, and the public sector, he specializes in transportation and municipal engineering. His expertise spans road safety, street design, land development, traffic modeling, and 3D design of water, sewer, and stormwater networks. Mohamed has extensive experience working with and teaching Civil 3D software for road design and municipal infrastructure. He has contributed to numerous transportation-related projects in Canada and the Middle East, along with land development projects in Alberta and British Columbia.
Education Ph.D. in Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2020 M.Sc. in Civil Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2015 B.Sc. in Civil Engineering, Ain Shams University, 2008
Professional Registration P.Eng., Engineers and Geoscientists British Columbia Road Safety Professional (Level 2-Infrastructure) (RSP2I), Transportation Professional Certification Board
### Eugene Yeung, M.Eng, P.Eng.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment eugene_yeung@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Eugene Yeung is a seasoned civil engineer and project manager with over 20 years of diverse experience in engineering, construction project management in Canada and overseas. His extensive professional background encompasses the management of various infrastructural projects, including the construction and retrofit of wharves, harbours, graving docks, parks, lift stations, electrical substations, and brownfield remediation. Eugene has a proven track record of leading and collaborating with multi-disciplinary project and construction teams throughout his projects.
Education
Master of Engineering (M.Eng.), Civil Engineering (Project & Construction Management), University of British Columbia, 2022 Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) (Honours), Civil & Structural Engineering, University of Hong Kong, 1997
Professional Registration
P.Eng., British Columbia
Special Interests
Eugene is deeply committed to mentoring and professional development within the engineering community. As a volunteer with Engineers and Geoscientists BC (EGBC), he had served as a mentoring committee member, guiding young and new members on their journey to professional registration. His dedication to fostering growth of aspiring professionals extends to his teaching role, where he spent over a year as an instructor of project and construction management courses before joining BCIT.
### Benedict Egbon, PhD, P.Eng, PMP.
Instructor, Civil Engineering School of Construction and the Environment benedict_egbon@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Benedict Egbon is a professional engineer with strong interest in engineering education and research. His research centers on the design and construction of resilient and sustainable infrastructure, with particular focus on the use of fibre reinforced polymer materials. His industrial experience includes the design and construction of residential and commercial buildings, with project management roles. He previously served as a Lecturer at the University of Benin (Nigeria) and an adjunct instructor at the University of Alberta (Canada), teaching courses such as engineering statics, structural analysis and design, as well as technical communication in engineering.
Education
Ph.D.in Structural Engineering, University of Alberta (Canada), 2024 M.Sc. in Structural Engineering, University of Nottingham (UK), 2016 B.Eng. in Civil Engineering, University of Benin (Nigeria), 2011
Professional Registration
P.Eng.: Member Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of Alberta (APEGA) PMP: Project Management Institute (PMI) Member Canadian Society for Civil Engineering (CSCE) Member Canadian Engineering Education Association (CEEA-ACEG)
### Staff
### Giselle LaCounte
Program Assistant, Civil Engineering Full-time Program School of Construction and the Environment Giselle_LaCounte@bcit.ca
### Kristi Obradovic
(on leave)
### Arrian Macharia
Program Assistant, Civil Engineering Part Time Studies and Distance Education School of Construction and the Environment arrian_macharia@bcit.ca
### Advisory Committee
- C. Braley, AScT: City of Coquitlam
- R. Fernandes, AScT: PCL Constructors Westcoast Inc.
- S. Fumagalli-Hui, P.Eng.: Hatch
- S. Kennedy, P.Eng.: Fraser River Pile and Dredge
- C. Peddie, P.Eng.: JJM Construction Ltd. P.Eng., JJM Construction Ltd.
- D. Tara, P.Eng.: Thurber Engineering Ltd.
- T. Rabey, AScT, PMP: R.F. Binnie & Associates
- M. Bilotta, M.Sc., P.Eng.: Glotman Simpson
- F. Lin, P.Eng.: City of Burnaby
- B. Markos, P.Eng.: City of Maple Ridge
- R. Wood, M.Sc., P.Eng.: BGC Engineering
- D. Dulay, P.L.Eng., McElhanney
## Contact Us
### General inquiries (full-time program)
- Sudip Talukdar , PhD, P.Eng. – Program Head: 604-456-1064
- Giselle LaCounte – Program Assistant: 604-456-1259
### Admissions inquiries (full-time program)
- Please contact Program Advising
### Alternate studies (part-time programs)
Inquiries about part-time studies (night-school) or distance ed:
- Civil Engineering Technology Part-time Program Alternate Studies Coordinator: 604-456-1066
(Scroll down for a question/comment form)
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
