URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/computer-systems-diploma-part-time-5500pdiplt/
Title: Computer Systems
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Computer Systems
Diploma Part-time School of Computing and Academic Studies
## Overview
The Computer Systems Technology (CST/FLEX) Diploma program is built on the foundations acquired from the Computer Systems Certificate (CSC). Students start with advanced levels of web app and C++ development. They increase their skills with related computer science, mathematics, and software design courses. Choose from a wide variety of electives.
Delivery: blended. See details .
The CST Diploma is a well recognized credential with employers who know that CST graduates are job ready. CST grads have hands-on experience solving problems by writing code, creating software, developing web applications, and designing scalable and secure enterprise Computing and IT system solutions.
CST/FLEX is part-time delivery so you can adjust your course load each term to suit your availability. You could complete this program in as little as 2 years with 3 courses per term, or 3 years with 2 courses per term.
### About the program
- 3 intakes: September, January, and April
- Classes at night after 6pm and on weekends
- Course by course registration, pay as you go
- Have the option to work on an industry project with real clients
- Engage with a community, Peer Tutors, student clubs, and attend events
- Choose from 20 credits of advanced electives in: business intelligence, cloud computing, database, data visualization, DevOps, programming languages, mobile and web development
See the Program Details to learn more about what you can expect from CST/FLEX, and how you can prepare for a wide variety of career options in the Computing and IT industry.
### Who should complete the CST Diploma?
This program might be for you if:
- You want a career in the expanding Computing and IT sector
- You enjoy problem-solving, communicating, and working in teams
- You are interested in programming, creating software apps, and developing information systems
If any of these sound like you, please check the Entrance Requirements to ensure you can apply and start your new IT career!
### What Computer Systems Technology grads can do?
By earning your BCIT Diploma, you will have gained significant knowledge and hands-on skills with various industry-recognized technologies and tools, preparing you for positions in multiple sectors across the globe.
As a CST graduate, you will be able to:
- Participate in all aspects of software development and maintenance
- Contribute and communicate effectively as a member of software project teams
- Design and code with widely-used programming languages and scripting tools, such as JavaScript, Java, C, C# and C++
- Develop and maintain complex software components and information systems that are scalable and secure
- Apply logical, critical, and creative thinking to effectively solve Computing and IT-related problems
- Work productively and meet deadlines in a fast-paced, deadline-driven environment
- Learn Independently and adopt new tools, current technologies and methods to stay on top of the latest technologies
- Be admitted to the Bachelor of Science (BScACS) either full-time or part-time
## Entrance Requirements
The CST FLEX Diploma is 120 credits; 60 unique credits built on top of the 60 credits in the CSC.
Students must complete the majority of CSC, including Communications, Java, C, and Architecture, before applying to the CST FLEX Diploma.
Please Note: The CST FLEX Diploma requires a minimum of 2 years of study, with a maximum of 5 years to complete. Due to prerequisites and scheduling, it is not possible to complete this Flexible Learning program in a full-time delivery.
The absolute minimum time is 12 terms or 4 years to complete both the part-time CSC and CST FLEX Diploma.
For course and program planning before applying to the CST FLEX Diploma, please email: cstflex@bcit.ca
### About Flexible Learning
Flexible Learning offers a variety of courses and programs in different delivery modes and locations to customize your learning at your own pace. You can review course prerequisites on our website and if you meet them, you’ll be able to register for that available course immediately. Some courses may require departmental approval or formal acceptance into the program. BCIT Flexible Learning courses are offered during the Winter (January), Spring/Summer (April), and Fall (September) terms.
### Application processing
Applications are accepted throughout the year with intake options available during the following periods:
Intake | Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
Winter (January) | February 1st* | Domestic students: January 2nd* International students: November 1st*
Spring/Summer (April) | May 1st* | Domestic students: April 1st* International students: February 1st*
Fall (September) | October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intakes may fill before the deadline. If you are currently registered in a course or planning to start, submit your application early to secure your spot in the program.
### Entrance requirements
Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
- Post-secondary education: Completion of the Computer Systems Certificate (CSC) program. You must have completed or be enrolled in your final term of the CSC before applying to the Flexible Learning Diploma in Computer Systems Technology program. Students who have not completed the certificate in the past five years or have department-approved equivalent education may require additional courses.
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent which is covered via COMM 110x from the CSC.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program currently meets the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
( CIPC : 15.1202)
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
Ongoing Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) intakes: January, April, and September .
## Costs & Supplies
This program is a course-by-course registration, there are approximately 36 individual courses in the entire series ASD, ACIS, CSC, CST FLEX.
The average course tuition is around $550 per course depending on credits. Textbooks are generally required and may cost $150+ for each course.
Credit for the CST FLEX Diploma calculated on top of the 60 credits in the CSC.
CST FLEX Diploma students will not receive dual credit for any course used in the CSC.
There are approximately 18 courses (60 credits) in this CST FLEX diploma completion segment depending on electives chosen.
Please budget an additional $9,500 for tuition on top of the CSC cost to complete this follow-on credential.
A total of 120 unique total credits from ASD, ACIS and CSC is required to graduate from the CST FLEX Diploma.
The cost of tuition and books for this series of laddered part-time credentials is approximately $20,000 for Canadian residents.
International students who are approved into CSC and CST FLEX will pay 3x standard tuition and need to budget over $60,000 for tuition and books.
Scheduling of Computing Flexible Learning courses typically does not allow students to attempt more than 3 courses simultaneously.
Students should not expect to complete the CST FLEX Diploma series in less than 4-5 years part-time.
Flexible Learning is market-driven course by course delivery and not all courses are available every term.
Please attend a program specific information session for more details.
### Tuition fees
Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) tuition is charged on a course-by-course basis. Please see the Flexible Learning Tuition & Fees page for more information on domestic and international tuitions.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Program matrix
Check current availability of courses for this program.
1. Completion of the BCIT Computer Systems Certificate (60.0 credits):
The Computer Systems FLEX Diploma requires completion of a minimum of 60.0 credits on top of the 60.0 credits in the Computer Systems Certificate (CSC) for a total of 120.0 unique credits to graduate.
2. Required Courses (39.5 credits): | Credits
COMP 1288 | IT Project Management Fundamentals ​​​This hands-on course is aimed at BCIT Computing students who want to develop and implement an IT project plan. Students focus on Project Management best practices and decisions which apply across the IT sector including software development, building web sites and data analytics systems. COMP 1288 begins with a definition of Project Management fundamentals and terminology. Topics include: stakeholders, scope, deliverables, phases, milestones, deadlines, scheduling, estimates and budgets. Labs and exercises are designed to create project plans that identify and manage risk and take into account quality measures. There is a basic introduction to Microsoft Project software. Participants apply strategies to communicate project progress to stakeholders to keep IT projects on time and on budget. COMP 1288 is an elective in several associate certificates, including Applied Computer Information Systems (ACIS) and Agile Development, and is required for the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon successful completion students will have a basic understanding of project management concepts and tools and will be able to conduct a post project evaluation. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
COMP 3603 | Application Development with C++* This hands-on computer programming software application development course follows on from COMP 2511 and COMP 2601. It assumes students have prior knowledge of both procedural programming with C and understand object-oriented programming fundamentals using Java or C#. COMP 3603 starts with a quick review of the language syntax that is common to C, Java, C# and C++. Students are then introduced to C++ classes, and how inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction and modularization all relate to the C++ language. Participants must provide their own current model PC, i5 or higher equivalent processor, 8 GB of RAM minimum, and 256 GB minimum storage. High-speed internet access is needed for online sections and for homework. Labs and exercises focus on the coding style and naming conventions used to build and deploy commercial quality C++ applications. Topics include: C++ Stream Input/Output, operator overloading, templates functions and classes, exception handling, and introduction to the Standard Template Library. Multiple inheritance to model complex algorithms is also discussed. Please Note: Attendance, participation in class and the BCIT Learning Hub are required. Students may have an average total time commitment of 16 total hours each week; 3 hours of class time, a 1-hour online component and 12+ hours of homework each week. COMP 3603 is the prerequisite for COMP 4603 – Advanced C++Application Development, starting September 2022. Both courses are electives in the Applied Software Development (ASD) Associate Certificate and both are required in the CST/PTS Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will be able to build and deploy well designed, entry-level C++ applications and be prepared to move on to COMP 4603- Advanced C++ Application Development. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2511 and 60% in COMP 2601 course outline | 4.0
COMP 3704 | Applied IT Security Foundations This hand-on course offers and in-depth overview of key topics in information technology (IT) security and how to apply best practices for securing computer systems. COMP 3704 starts with an introduction to IT security principles prior to discussion risk terminology, IT security controls, policies, and standards. Topics include security awareness, risk mitigation and control administration. Data and application security, cryptography, information handling best practices, privacy and regulatory issues are also discussed. Labs and exercises include vulnerability assessment, penetration testing, incident response, disaster recovery, and forensic analysis to gain practical experience. COMP 3704 is a required course in BCIT's Applied Data Analytics Certificate (ADAC) and the Computer Systems Technology (CST) FLEX Diploma. Upon completion of this course, successful participants will be able to identify common cyber threats and use standard controls to protect information assets. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1002 or 50% in ACIT 1420 course outline | 3.0
COMP 3725 | Data Communications for CST Following on from COMP 2825 Computer Architecture, students are introduced to the basic concepts and terminology related to data communications, networking and network topologies. COMP 3725 replaces COMP 3721 in the CST/PTS Diploma and is equivalent to the full-time CST Diploma course. Students will learn about the TCP/IP protocol suite and the principles of protocols at the physical, data link, network and transport layers, the characteristics of transmission media, analog/digital transmission, multiplexing/switching techniques, basic error detection and correction, elementary data link protocols, flow control and an introduction to routing and congestion control issues. Multiple access protocols, the UDP and TCP protocols, networking and internetworking devices, LANs and WANs will also be discussed. The course has a strong emphasis on data communications at the physical layer and the assignments will reinforce the fundamental concepts and analysis techniques. Upon successful completion, students will be familiar with network protocol implementation using a layered approach and apply basic data communication theory to the design and analysis of networks. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2825 or 50% in COMP 2721 course outline | 5.0
COMP 3761 | Algorithm Analysis and Design ​Understanding how to use algorithms for computer science is essential for problem solving to develop effective software applications. Algorithms are the foundation of both Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). In this hands-on course, Java programming students who have also taken Discrete Mathematics will develop their ability to analyze and design computer algorithms. Learners will analyze the time and space complexity of programs, solve nontrivial programming problems using algorithmic techniques, and prove that their solution is correct. The emphasis will be on developing the practical skills of analysis and design. Topics include evaluating time and space complexity and designing solutions by using appropriate data structures or applying techniques such as recursion, parsing and graph algorithms. COMP 3761 is a required course in the CST FLEX Diploma and it is equivalent to COMP 3760 in the Full-time CST Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will have a better understanding of algorithm behavior and how to develop more efficient and effective software applications. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMP 2121 and (60% in COMP 2601 or 50% in COMP 2522) course outline | 4.0
COMP 3833 | Object Oriented Analysis and Design T​his hands-on course replaces COMP 3832 as of August 2023. It follows on from COMP 2601- Programming Fundamentals Part 3 (Object Design) and COMP 2831 Business Analysis and Systems Design. Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) is aimed software designers and developers who already know how to code significant object-oriented software applications and who also understand the Software development Life Cycle (SDLC) related tools and processes. Exercises and lab work allow students to perform an Object-Oriented Analysis (OOA) based on given requirements. After first identifying business classes students then produce a business model which will be transformed into a design model through Object-Oriented Design (OOD). Topics include: use case analysis, domain model, business classes and relationships, design patterns, anti-patterns, refactoring, General Responsibility Assignment Software Patterns (GRASP), state machine diagrams and types of software architecture. An Agile iterative approach will be followed throughout the OOAD process. Labs include the use of a CASE tool to draw the Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams necessary to support the OOAD activities. COMP 3833 is a required course in the Advanced .NET Development, and the Advanced Java Development Associate Certificates, as well as the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will be able to demonstrate how to analyze, design and construct software applications to industry standards. This course is offered twice per year in the fall (September) and spring (April) terms. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2831 and (60% in COMP 2601 or 60% in COMP 3601 or 60% in COMP 3602 or 60% in COMP 3603) course outline | 3.0
COMP 4015 | Advanced Web Application Development** ​This hands-on course provides an in-depth exploration of server-side web application development, focusing on industry standard best practices, scalability, and security. Participants will develop sophisticated web applications using modern architectural patterns, while gaining experience with the Go and PHP programming languages. COMP 4015 emphasizes secure development practices, database integration with PostgreSQL, and the foundations that underpin robust web application design. Labs and exercises include building scalable, secure, and maintainable server-side applications. There is an emphasis on the broader ecosystem of web application development technologies and long-term scalability strategies. COMP 4015 replaces COMP 3015 as an elective in the Applied Web Development (AWD), and as a required course in the Web and Mobile Application Development (WMA) Associate Certificates, and the CST FLEX Diploma. ​Upon successful completion, students will be able to develop secure, scalable, commercial quality server-side web applications. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 3012 or 60% in COMP 2522 or 60% in COMP 2601 or 60% in ACIT 2520 course outline | 3.0
COMP 4603 | Advanced C++ Application Development This advanced software application development course follows on from COMP 3603 and COMP 3761. It assumes students have solid knowledge of procedural programming with C and can already write intermediate-level programs in C++. Participants must also understand how to use Alorithms Analysis and Design for advanced software application development. COMP 4603 starts with a quick review of writing and testing a well-formed C++ program. Students are then introduced to hands-on best practices, common design patterns and features added to C++ 20. They will be shown how to develop maintainable and adaptable C++ applications to industry standards. COMP 3603 and COMP 4603 are electives in the Applied Software Development (ASD) Associate Certificate and both C++ courses are required courses in the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will be able to design, build and deploy advanced C++ software for a variety of applications, from Games Development to Artificial Intelligence (AI). Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMP 2510 or 60% in COMP 2511 or (60% in COMP 2801 and 60% in COMP 3603) and (50% in COMP 3760 or 60% in COMP 3761) course outline | 4.0
COMP 4737 | Introduction to Operating Systems for CST ​​Following on from “Procedural Programming with C" and “Computer Architecture and Organization"; students are introduced to the basic concepts, terminology and leveraging operating systems for concurrent software applications. COMP 4737 replaces COMP 4731 in the CST/PTS Diploma. Participants focus on using concurrent programming: processes and threads, inter-process communication (IPC), synchronization and mutual exclusion, deadlock and starvation with an introduction to memory organization. Theoretical topics include: overall operating system structure, operating systems services, how these services are used, and kernel architecture. Labs and exercises reinforce concepts with examples of using these operating system services within application programs. This course is equivalent to COMP 4736 in the Full-time CST Diploma. Upon successful completion, students will be able analyze, design and implement concurrent software applications. COMP 4737 is required for the Computer Systems (CST/PTS) Diploma and is offered twice per year the Winter (January) and Spring (May) terms. Prerequisite(s): (50% in COMP 2510 or 60% in COMP 2511) and (50% in COMP 2721 or 60% in COMP 2825) course outline | 4.0
LIBS 7102 | Ethics for Computing Professionals ​The course examines ethical and legal issues related to employment as a computing professional, including tensions between personal interests, interests of the company and interests of clients. This course identifies and examines a range of ethical dilemmas likely to be encountered by professionals in the computing industry. Students will be given the theoretical tools to identify and analyze the issues, evaluate them, and propose solutions. Students will develop competence in moral reasoning through examining case studies that describe ethical and legal problems including: Employment (e.g., resume padding, resume fraud, employment contract, conflict of interests, rights and duties of employers and employees, etc.) Remote work (e.g., productivity, trust, opportunities for promotions, privacy, security, etc.) Contracts (e.g., non-disclosure and non-compete agreements, contract law, freedom and autonomy, etc.) Internet fraud (e.g., cybercrime, fraud, hacking, spoofing, phishing, dark patterns, etc.) Property rights (e.g., intellectual property, trade secrets, copyright, patents, open-­­source code, screen scraping, selecting software licenses, etc.) Data (e.g., data storage, data privacy, data residency, data custody, professional negligence, legal data protection, hacking, spoofing, phishing, fiduciary obligations, etc.)​. The course is required for the CST Diploma and will be offered in the spring (May) and winter (January) terms.​ Prerequisite(s): BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 4.0
MATH 1060 | Statistics for Data Analysis ​This hands-on course introduces descriptive statistics, basic inferential statistics, linear regression, and probability concepts and calculations. Emphasis throughout the course will be placed on using statistical methods for the exploration and analysis of data sets. This introduction will enable students to use statistics for data analysis, will prepare them for “Data Analytics/Mining,” and covers topics appropriate for anyone seeking a first statistics course. Labs and exercises employ standard graphical methods to represent statistical data. Hypothesis tests, including ANOVA, are used to test for significant differences between multiple groups. Students will be introduced to the open source R Programming language, a statistical analysis tool used to extract meaningful information from a variety of scientific, industrial and commercial data sets. Upon successful completion, students will be able to carry out calculations, perform statistical decision making and solve problems with involving collected data. This is a required course for the Applied Data Analytics Certificate offered by BCIT Computing. Prerequisite(s): Math 12 Pre-Calculus or equivalent. course outline | 3.0
MATH 1061 | Computer Simulations for Statistics This course allows students to learn, practice and demonstrate competency in knowledge of computer statistical simulation methods that are not covered in Math 1060. Math 1060 plus Math 1061 together are equivalent to Full-Time CST Math 3042. Math 1061 is required for the CST FLEX Diploma and is only offered in the winter (January) and summer (August) terms. Prerequisite(s): 60% in MATH 1060 course outline | 1.0
*Check Computing Flexible Learning Course and Program Changes for equivalents. **COMP 4015 may be used as an elective for students who have completed COMP 3015. Note: Courses completed as part of the CSC may not be re-taken or counted for credit in the CST FLEX Diploma which is built upon the CSC, and requires 60.0 additional, unique credits.
3. Complete a minimum of 20.5 credits from the following list of electives: | Credits
Unless previously completed in the Computer Systems Certificate (CSC), the following courses must be taken as electives (7.0 credits):
COMP 1011 | UX/UI Development ​This hands-on introduction to UX/UI is aimed at those who want to experience the development of user interfaces for applications, web sites, mobile applications, and information systems. COMP 1011 follows an iterative and agile approach focusing on User-Centered Design (UCD) as the motivator for product direction. Participants are expected to work within interdisciplinary teams, there will be an emphasis on collaboration, brainstorming, and the continued evolution of an interface concept based on UCD. User Experience (UX) encompasses a wide range of activities including User Interface (UI) design, Information Architecture (IA) and user research. Usability design and testing, tight integration and collaboration with software development processes are included in UX. COMP 1011 is required in the Computer Systems Certificate (CSC) and is an elective in several other Computing programs. Upon completion, successful students will be able to incorporate user-centered iterative design principles and processes into a wide variety of IT projects. Note: To ensure student success, COMP 2831 plus COMP 2132 or COMP 2501 should be completed first. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2831 or 60% in COMP 2501 or 60% in COMP 2132 course outline | 3.0
COMP 2833 | Agile Scrum Methods ​​This hands-on course follows on from COMP 2831 and begins with an in-depth overview of the goals of Agile, followed by hands-on Scrum implementations. Students will practice how to implement primary agile methods within the Scrum Framework. COMP 2833 assumes that all participants have strong English communication and interpersonal skills. In class exercises include: self-directed teams, writing of user stories, Agile estimating with relative sizing, co-location, metric reporting and test-driven development. Topics include: Scrum, and Lean/Kanban. Participants will experience the roles of Scrum Master, Scrum Product Owner, and Developer, both real-time in class and also online with a dispersed agile team. As an added bonus, this course helps students prepare to challenge the Professional Scrum Master™(PSM 1) certification exam from Scrum.org (additional cost). COMP 2833 is a required course in the Computer Systems Certificate (CSC) and an elective in the Applied Software Development (ASD) Associate Certificate. It is the prerequisite for the follow-on COMP 2836 - Agile Product Owner course in the Agile Development Associate Certificate from BCIT Computing. Upon completion, successful students will have gained significant experience forming and working in Agile teams. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2831 or 50% in ACIT 2831 course outline | 4.0
The remainder of the 20.5 elective credits must be selected from the following: | Credits
Complete a maximum of 3.0 credits from these two data visualization tools courses:
COMP 2256 | Introduction to Visual Analytics with Tableau ​This hands-on course is designed for database professionals, data analysts, business analysts and managers, who want to analyze and visualize data from a variety of sources. Students begin with a foundation in data visualization techniques and principles. Effective data analysis techniques, and industry standard best practices are discussed. Through hands-on labs, assignments, projects and group work, participants learn how to build insightful and interactive dashboards. Participants learn to present compelling visuals via lab exercises and assignments. Tableau dashboard performance considerations are discussed. Students registered in COMP 2256 will receive a student license for Tableau software for their home machines for the duration of the course and have access to a Tableau subject matter expert with industry experience. This course is an elective in five School of Computing and Academic Studies credential programs; Computer Systems Technology Diploma (CST/PTS), Applied Computer Information Systems (ACIS), Applied Computer Applications (ACA), Applied Database Administration and Design (ADAD) and Technical Writing. COMP 2256 is a requirement for the Applied Data Analytics Certificate (ADAC). A project presentation is required and designed to help the students become better communicators. By the end of this course successful participants will be able to produce highly interactive graphs, reports and dashboards that access and visualize data from a multiple sources. We recommend that students working toward a Computing credential complete COMP 1630 first. Prerequisite(s): COMP 1002 course outline | 3.0
or
COMP 2456 | Microsoft Power BI ​Microsoft Power BI is a business intelligence and data analytics platform that helps turn raw information into useful insights. COMP 2456 requires knowledge of advanced Excel functions and Pivot Tables from COMP 2364 and may be taken concurrently with COMP 2453 Introduction to Microsoft Fabric. Using a low-code, integrated environment to connect to different data sources, users create data models and publish interactive dashboards and reports. This hands-on course covers fundamental and advanced Power BI concepts with practical workplace applications. Activities cover the business intelligence lifecycle, including data preparation with Power Query. Topics include, Semantic modeling using Star Schema, analytical calculations utilizing Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) and dashboard design following UX/UI principles. Lab exercises and project tasks cover Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) methods, Row-Level Security (RLS), performance optimization, and Power BI Service deployment. Participants gain skills in workspace management and Git version control, applying industry best practices in real-world contexts. They will also use AI tools like CoPilot and Claude for Power BI to boost report productivity, create DAX measures, and design wireframes. COMP 2456 is an elective in the Applied Computer Information Systems (ACIS), and the Applied Database Administration and Design (ADAD) Associate Certificates, the Applied Data Analytics Certificate (ADAC), and the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon completion of this course, successful students will be able to utilize the Power BI unified analytics platform to design and publish high-quality dashboards for web deployment. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2362 or 60% in COMP 2364 or equivalent knowledge. course outline | 3.0
And any of
COMP 2010 | Microsoft Office Applications ​This hands-on course is the next step in personal computer literacy after COMP 1002 - Applied Computer Concepts. It is aimed at students who are already proficient with a Windows 11 PC and able to manage files on a network, in the cloud. COMP 2010 is designed to provide proficiency in three key applications of MS Office: MS Word, MS Excel, and MS PowerPoint. Starting with short lectures and in class labs, participants will complete additional exercises and assignments outside of class, using a student version of MS Office 365 hosted by ​BCIT. Topics include essential skills in each of MS Word, MS Excel, and MS PowerPoint. MS Access will also be used as a tool to demonstrate simple database design. Students use best practices to integrate data between Microsoft applications and to solve a wide range of productivity, communication, and collaboration tasks. They will be prepared to move on to the follow-on 6-week COMP 2362 MS Excel Advanced offered once per year in the April (spring) term. COMP 2010 is required in the Applied Computer Information Systems (ACIS) Associate Certificate. It is an elective in the Technical Writing Associate Certificate and the Computer Systems FLEX Diploma from BCIT Computing. Upon successful completion, students will be able to create, edit and manage cloud-based Microsoft documents, spreadsheets, and presentations. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1002 or 60% in ACIT 1420 course outline | 3.0
COMP 2362 | Microsoft Excel Advanced ​​This instructor lead, hands-on course continues on from COMP 2010. Students must have prior knowledge and skills at using the basic and intermediate features of MS Excel before starting this Advanced MS Excel course. Participants start at an intermediate level and progress to expert in just 6 lessons while practicing how to create and manage a variety of meaningful spreadsheets. COMP 2362 focuses on the best practices, time saving techniques and how to use MS Excel to create to analyze, communicate and manage information. Lectures, lab exercises in class and assignments outside of class are used for an applied learning experience. Advanced topics include: consolidating data in multiple worksheets templates, dealing with error messages, solver and basic macros. Students who have not completed COMP 2010 should know subtotalling, pivot tables and pivot charts. Participants progress from intermediate to expert in just 6 weeks. This course is an elective in the Applied Computer Information Systems (ACIS) Associate Certificate from BCIT Computing. By the end of this course, successful participants will be expert end users of MS Excel. This course is offered once a year in the Spring (April) term. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2010 course outline | 1.5
COMP 2453 | Introduction to MS Fabric for Data Analytics ​​This hands-on course builds upon COMP 1630 Relational Database Design and SQL, or equivalent experience in data modelling and data systems. COMP 2453 delivers a thorough introduction to Microsoft Fabric, covering its underlying architecture and may be taken concurrently with COMP 2456- Microsoft PowerBI. It provides a detailed examination of OneLake, the platform's unified data storage layer that centralizes and simplifies data access. Students gain hands-on skills using cloud-native tools within the Microsoft Fabric ecosystem. Topics include building Lakehouses, which merge the strengths of data lakes and warehouses, orchestrating workflows with Data Factory and Dataflows. Managing sophisticated data pipelines for comprehensive analytics solutions, Real-time analytics through Eventstreams and KQL (Kusto Query Language) for analysing large datasets are also discussed. Labs and exercises focus on best practices for scalable data solutions, efficient real-time processing, and the use of generative AI for advanced analytical tasks. Participants utilize Power BI for high-level data visualizations and learn how Copilot integrates with Microsoft Fabric, enabling AI-powered analysis and automated insight generation. COMP 2453 is required course for the Applied Data Analytics Certificate (ADAC), an elective for the Applied Computer Information Systems (ACIS), Applied Database Administration and Design (ADAD) Associate Certificates, and the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon completion of this course, successful students will be equipped to proficiently manage the entire data lifecycle within the MS Fabric environment. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1630 or equivalent experience. course outline | 1.5
COMP 2629 | Enterprise Networking Fundamentals ​Following on from COMP 1002 students are introduced to the fundamental concepts and terminology related to data communications and enterprise networks. Students are introduced to the basic (design, implementation and management) concepts and terminology related to data communications and networking. Topics include network topology, protocols, transmission media, switching techniques, access control and addressing for wired and wireless networks. There is also an overview of network security and network management principles. Participants will investigate how requirements relate to network design and network administration. They will also study how computers exchange data over LANs and WANs. Labs and exercises will examine network protocol implementation as well as show how to troubleshoot and improve network design. The OSI model as well as the TCP/IP protocol suite at the physical, data link, network and transport layers are used throughout the course to demonstrate concepts and implementation. ​ COMP 2629 is required for Applied Network Administration and Design (ANAD), and is also an elective in the CST/FLEX Diploma. This course is also equivalent to ACIT 2620 - Principles of Enterprise Networking, in the full-time CIT Diploma. Upon successful completion, students will have a practical understanding of the principles of data communications for enterprise networks. This course is offered in the April (spring) term. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1002 or 50% in ACIT 1420 course outline | 4.0
COMP 2766 | Introduction to Linux Part 1 ​This hands-on course follows on from COMP 1002 and assumes proficiency with a PC and file management. Students are introduced to command line Linux concepts using the GNU/Linux operating system on the Intel platform. Participants will install the Linux operating system, partition a disk, create and mount a file system, and configure the boot loader and services. COMP 2766 labs and exercises focus on how to navigate the file system, manipulate files, and directories, and set permissions. Participants will manage processes, users, groups, and passwords in a Linux environment and learn to edit text files using vi editor. They will also practice how to redirect input, output, manage error messages, plus use shell metacharacters and the Secure Shell (SSH). Topics include login procedures, the Linux/Unix shell, the Linux file system, and directory management, text editing and process control. Linux system security concepts are also discused. COMP 2766 provides a working knowledge of how to install, set up and configure Linux. It is required in the Applied Network Administration and Design (ANAD) Associate Certificate and an elective in the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon successful completion, students will have a solid foundation of the Linux environment and be prepared for the follow-on COMP 2768 - ​Introduction to Linux Part 2 (Administration). Both courses are electives in the CST FLEX Diploma.​​ COMP 2766 will be offered in the Spring (April) and Fall (September) terms. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1002 or 50% in ACIT 1420 course outline | 4.0
COMP 2768 | Introduction to Linux Part 2 (Administration) This course follows from COMP 2766 and is designed for students who already have a solid foundation in command-line Linux. Through hands-on exercises and labs, students will monitor the system, automate common administrative tasks, secure and maintain the entire system. Topics include archiving and transferring files between systems, web server administration, scheduling, logging, and basic troubleshooting for Linux Administrators. Participants will configure a web server, schedule future tasks, write Bash shell scripts, configure a server firewall, log kernel messages, archive and transfer files. COMP 2766 and COMP 2768 are electives in the CST FLEX Diploma and together are equivalent to ACIT 2420 in the CIT Diploma. Upon successful completion of this course, students will be aware of best practices in Linux Administration. Note: COMP 2768 has replaced COMP 2767 and is offered in the summer term directly after COMP 2766. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2766 course outline | 1.0
COMP 2836 | Agile Team Leadership with AI This hands-on course follows on from COMP 2833, and builds on the content of the Scrum Guide. Students who have experience applying Agile Scrum Methods and the Scrum Framework will use integrated case studies for Agile Business Systems Analysis. Participants will be introduced to using AI agents and tools to generate an Agile business start-up. COMP 2836 assumes participation in exercises and simulations within the Scrum and Kanban frameworks. Topics include forming self-directed teams, understanding team dynamics and Agile coaching, and Agile Team Leadership. In class exercises include applying Agile Team Leadership styles through role-play and user story creation with AI tools to embrace the continual flow of changing requirements. Students will gain experience with using AI agents to scale the Agile techniques to apply Scrum to geographically distributed projects. They engage in delivering business value to clients with production ready concepts early and throughout the project. Continuous collaboration with the product owner and the self-directed Agile Team Leaders team is reinforced. This course helps students prepare to challenge the Certified Scrum Product Owner® (PSPO1), certification exam from Scrum.org (additional cost). COMP 2836 is a required course in the Agile Development Associate Certificate and is an elective in the Computer Systems Technology (CST FLEX) Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will have gained considerable experience with Agile Analysis methods, techniques, and best practices with AI-driven insights for Agile Team Leadership. This course will be offered once per year in the winter (January) term, online. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2833 course outline | 4.0
COMP 2909 | Front-End Web Development with Angular and Vue.js ​​This hands-on web development course follows on from COMP 2132. It was designed for students with prior experience developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Angular and Vue are popular JavaScript open-source front-end application frameworks for developing modularized single-page applications and building user interfaces. Angular is a standalone front-end JavaScript framework with in-built tools and libraries to build scalable web apps. Vue provides the ability to extend web application functionality with customized modules and visual components. COMP 2909 starts with installing the latest version of Angular. Labs and exercises reinforce Angular development fundamentals to build components, modules, and services for data-driven, client-side web applications. Vue.js is then used for rapid modular web application development. Exercises also include: routing, asynchronous JSON transfer, and validation. These features are then implemented using Vue.js 3. Automated testing and redux architecture are also introduced using Angular. There is a brief introduction to using Angular with the Apache Cordova framework for platform independent mobile development for Android and iOS. Participants may also want to complete COMP 3012 -Back-End Web Development with Node.js, COMP 3013 -Front-End Web Development with React.js, and COMP 4015​ Advanced Web Application Development. COMP 2909 is an elective in several BCIT Computing applied associate certificate as well as the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will be able to use Angular and Vue frameworks to develop data-driven and interactive single-page web applications for all mainstream browsers. This course is offered in the fall (October) and winter (February).​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2132 or 50% in ACIT 1620 course outline | 1.5
COMP 3012 | Back-End Web Development with Node.js ​This hands-on course follows on from COMP 2132 and replaces COMP 2912. It was designed for students with prior experience developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Students must provide their own current model PC, i5 or higher equivalent processor, 8 GB of RAM minimum, and 256 GB minimum storage. Highspeed internet access is needed for online sections and for homework. Starting with how Node.js fits into client-server software architecture, participants will focus on the Node.js programming model. Labs and exercises cover creating, installing and using node modules. Web frameworks like Express.js and Jest as used to build and test powerful web applications. Students will experience how Node.js is used by enterprise environments and modern web stacks like MEAN and MERN. Topics include: how to build, and deploy a RESTful API following best-practices, and learn error handling strategies. Typescript integration with Node.js as well as how to connect to databases will also be discussed. Please Note: Attendance, participation in class and the BCIT Learning Hub are required. Students may have an average total time commitment of 11 hours each week; with 3 hours of class time, and 8 hours of homework. Web developers should also consider multiple advanced JavaScript tools including: COMP 2909 Angular and Vue.js Fundamentals and COMP 3013​ Front-End Web Development with React.js. COMP 3012 is an elective in several BCIT Computing applied associate certificates; Web Development (AWD), Web and Mobile Application Development (WMA), Advanced Java Development (AJD) and Advanced .NET Development; as well as the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will be able to use Node.js to build robust, scalable, data intensive web applications with user authentication. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2132 or 50% in ACIT 1620 course outline | 3.0
COMP 3013 | Front-End Web Development with React.js React.js is an open source JavaScript library widely used to create fast, modular web and mobile applications. This hands-on course follows on from COMP 2132 and was designed for students with prior experience developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Students must provide their own current model PC, i5 or higher equivalent processor, 8 GB of RAM minimum, and 256 GB minimum storage. Highspeed internet access is needed for online sections and for homework. Starting with an introduction to React.js concepts, participants concentrate on how React works with browsers and the Document Object Model (DOM). Then students use the modern Hooks API to built clean and testable components. Instructor led labs and exercises focus on how to structure and develop single-page applications using NPM, Webpack and Babel, following current industry standards. Topics include: Routing, Server-Side Rendering, Styling, State Management, and deployment. Please Note: Attendance, participation in class and the BCIT Learning Hub are required. Students may have an average total time commitment of 11 hours each week; with 3 hours of class time, and 8 hours of homework. ​Web developers should also consider learning multiple advanced JavaScript tools including: COMP 2909 -Angular and Vue.js Fundamentals and COMP 3012 Back-End Web Development with Node.js. COMP 3013 is an elective in several BCIT Computing applied associate certificates; Web Development (AWD), Web and Mobile Application Development (WMA), Advanced Java Development (AJD) and Advanced .NET Development; as well as the CST/PTS Diploma. Upon completion successful participants will be able to use React to create and deploy dynamic web applications quickly, with more functionality and less code. This course replaces COMP 2913 as of January 2023. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2132 or 50% in ACIT 1620 course outline | 3.0
COMP 3601 | Application Development with Java ​This forth-level programming course follows on from COMP 2601 and assumes students have significant prior knowledge of object-oriented programming using Java. COMP 3601 starts with using Java core APIs and the Eclipse IDE with industry standard coding styles and naming conventions. Students practice how to build and deploy commercial quality Java applications with Event Driven Architecture. Labs and exercises use a variety of skills to debug programs and use design patterns to develop advanced applications in Java. Topics include: packages, inner classes, file I/O, an overview of database connectivity, user interfaces, model-view-controller (MVC) and other design patterns for standalone Java applications as well as Java web applications. Participants develop database enabled web applications and are introduced to Java web tier development. There is a focus on the design and how to build, deploy and distribute Java web applications into application servers. They configure and customize a simple web application server with Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) to create and edit data from Java Web Applications. Maven is used with Java Servlets as web application controllers and Java Server Pages (JSP) to build and deploy Java web apps on JEE containers, implemented by a WildFly application server. COMP 3601 is part of three BCIT Computing Associate Certificates; Applied Software Development (ASD), Advanced Java Application Development (AJD), a prerequisite for Web and Mobile Applications (WMA) and a recommended elective in the CST FLEX Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will be able to build and deploy well designed basic Java Web applications and be prepared to move on to COMP 4601- Advanced Java Web App Development. ​COMP3601 will be offered in the Spring (April) and Fall (September) terms.​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2601 course outline | 4.0
COMP 3602 | Application Development with C# ​This fourth-level computer programming course follows on from COMP 2601 and assumes prior knowledge of object-oriented programming using Java. COMP 3602 starts with an introduction to C# programming with Microsoft Visual Studio and the .NET Framework for application development. Labs and assignments are designed to reinforce Microsoft industry standard naming conventions and best practices. Topics include: Windows Forms and controls, event-driven programming, deploying a web service, asynchronous programming, working with SQL databases and effective application debugging. Students build graphical user interfaces (GUIs) and design Windows application software. ​​COMP 3602 is an elective in the Applied Software Development (ASD) Associate Certificate. It is a prerequisite for COMP 4602​. Both .NET courses are required in the Advanced .NET Development (AND) Associate Certificate, and are electives the CST/FLEX Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will be able to use C# to build and deploy cross platform software applications with the latest .NET technologies. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2601 course outline | 4.0
COMP 3617 | Android and Mobile Applications in Java ​​​Continuing on from COMP 2613 or COMP 3601, this hands-on course is designed for those who already understand how to use Java to develop applications to industry standards. Students who are experienced Java programmers are introduced to the Kotlin programming language to develop, debug and deploy Android applications. This is a BYOD course not in a computer lab. Students must provide their own Windows, Mac or Linux laptop to participate in this course. See the current Android Studio hardware requirements. Please note: BCIT does provide technical support for student's hardware or operating systems. Labs and assignments explore and use Android Studio, SDK tools - avd, adb etc., to build and deploy Android applications on the emulator(s). Topics include: Designing user interfaces with Layouts, Fragments and Activities. Students learn to manage Android Resources, work with Manifest files, persist data, create Services, leverage multi-threading constructs and make use of REST endpoints. Other topics of discussion include Location Based Services, network connectivity, accessing cloud services and data. This course is an elective in the CST/PTS Diploma. Upon completion, students may continue on to advanced courses and programs, COMP 3617 is a required course for the Web and Mobile Application Development Associate Certificate and an elective in the Advanced Java Development Associate Certificate. By the end of this course successful participants will complete a final project which includes using Java to design, build, and package and deploy an Android application to a mobile device. COMP 3617 is under review and not currently being offered. Prerequisite(s): COMP 2522 or COMP 2613 or COMP 3601 course outline | 3.0
COMP 3678 | SQL Server Development ​This hands-on course has replaced COMP 4678 as of September 2023 and follows on from COMP 1630 and COMP 2364. Students who already understand relational database design, SQL programming and MS Excel are introduced SQL Server Development. SQL Server Development begins with a brief overview cloud computing using the MS Azure ecosystem and MS SQL Server tools. There also will be a brief review of the relational database modelling, Entity Relationship Design (ERD) and normalization topics from COMP 1630. COMP 3678 topics include SQL server data types, the use of Data Definition Language (DDL), and how to write MS SQL queries using Data Manipulation Language (DML). Labs and exercises show how to use SQL Server tools and techniques to optimize SQL queries Transact-SQL (T-SQL) runtime errors. Students will use T-SQL to develop and manage the data layer for software applications, working with relational and portable data from multiple sources in MS SQL Server. Participants will see the basic differences between on premises Database Management Systems (DBMS) and a cloud Database setup. Tasks to Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) data, MS SQL Server Database operations will also be discussed. ​COMP 3678 is an elective in the Applied Database Administration and Design (ADAD) Associate Certificate, the Applied Data Analytics Certificate (ADAC) and Computer Systems Technology (CST FLEX) Diploma. Successful participants will be able to: manage data from multiple sources, create scripts and database objects using T-SQL. This course will be offered starting April 2024.​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1630 and (60% in COMP 2364 or 60% in COMP 2362) course outline | 4.0
COMP 3679 | MS Azure and SQL Analytics Tools ​This hands-on course follows on from COMP 1630 and COMP 2156 or COMP 2456. Participants must already understand relational database design, data modeling, SQL programming, and the basics of MS PowerBI. COMP 3679 begins with an overview of Business Intelligence (BI) tools and MS Azure data analytics concepts and may be taken concurrently with COMP 2453 Introduction to Microsoft Fabric. Students are introduced to cloud computing using Microsoft Azure Cloud Services and explore business intelligence platforms. They review best practices to author, deploy and manage reports using Power BI on Azure. Labs and exercises show how to use Azure tools to extract the data from its multiple data pipelines. MS SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) is used to provide additional BI concepts. COMP 3679 topics include BI platforms, the Data Warehouse (DW) Lifecycle and data modelling concepts. Star, Snowflake schemas and using Azure Data on the cloud are discussed. There will be a focus on best practices to implement data pipelines and data loading using Azure Data Factory (ADF) and Azure SQL. Various reporting options will be discussed, students will author, deploy, and manage significant BI reports. They will extract data from multiple sources, integrated with MS PowerBI. COMP 3679 is an elective in the Applied Database Administration and Design (ADAD) Associate Certificate; the Applied Data Analytics Certificate (ADAC) and the Computer Systems Technology (CST FLEX) Diploma. Upon successful completion, students will be able to use components of the Azure ecosystem to design and optimize Azure data solutions for data analysts and developers. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1630 and (60% in COMP 2156 or 60% in COMP 2456) or equivalent knowledge. course outline | 4.0
COMP 3682 | Microsoft Cloud Server Administration ​This hands-on course follows on from COMP 1630 or COMP 2629. Students who understand database design and how to configure a MS Windows PC are introduced to the basic tasks that an Administrator performs to manage Microsoft cloud server products, specifically MS SQL Server and MS Windows Server. COMP 3682 details the different roles and types of servers used on premises and the cloud server environment with Microsoft Azure. Labs and exercises focus on Microsoft Server Administration to create and manage users, groups, shares, and file permissions. Role Based Access Control (RBAC) best practices will be used. Students will install, configure, and architect both a Microsoft Windows Server and a Microsoft SQL Server in a Cloud environment. Topics include how to deploy and manage Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS), plan and implement Group and local Security Policies; industry standard strategies for managing storage, planning for server back-ups, troubleshooting, monitoring, and managing a server with built-in tools. Server security and recovery plans with compliance strategies for a Microsoft Server on the cloud will be discussed. COMP 3682 is a required course in the Applied Database Administration and Design (ADAD), Applied Network Administration and Design (ANAD) Associate Certificates, and is an elective in the Computer Systems Technology (CST FLEX) Diploma. Please Note: The Spring/Summer 2026 section is compressed over 6 weeks, with 2 classes per week and twice the amount of homework per week as the 12-week section. Upon completion, successful students will be able to create and manage user accounts, use built-in troubleshooting tools, monitor performance, and implement a security and recovery plan for Microsoft Window Server and Microsoft SQL Server in a cloud environment. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1002 or 60% in COMP 1630 or (50% in ACIT 1420 and 50% in ACIT 1630) course outline | 4.0
COMP 3771 | MS PowerShell Scripting ​Microsoft PowerShell is a popular task automation and configuration framework. As a scripting language, PowerShell is commonly used for automating the management of Microsoft systems and services. PowerShell includes scripting tools to automate and control systems, programs, and files to improve productivity. COMP 3771 is a hands-on lab course aimed network or database administrators and software developers. PowerShell scripts are used for systems and services administration or database automation, monitoring, and maintenance, and can also automate tasks for testing software programs and rapid application development. Starting with a basic introduction to scripting with the Command Prompt window, the course then focuses on how to use MS PowerShell with Windows. There will be a brief overview of using Azure resources in PowerShell. COMP 3771 is required course in the Applied Database Administration and Design Associate Certificate and an elective in the Applied Network Administration and Design, Associate Certificates, plus the CST FLEX Diploma. ​Successful participants will be able to automate many tasks with Microsoft PowerShell and reduce repetitive tasks by creating scripts and functions that can run interactively or automatically. This course is offered in April (spring/summer) and September (fall) terms. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1002 or 60% in COMP 1630 course outline | 3.0
COMP 3829 | Quality Assurance and Software Testing ​Following on from COMP 2501 - Programming Fundamentals Part 2 (Java) and COMP 2831 - Business Analysis and Systems Design, this hands-on course introduces the concepts, tools and processes to perform Quality Assurance (QA) and software testing. Students with Java programming experience are shown how to integrate QA best practices in every step of the development process. Topics include manual and automated testing, creating test cases, bug finding and reporting, and understanding the steps of the Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC). COMP 3829 will focus on the fundamental concepts of QA, practicing different methods of finding, writing, and running test cases. Participants will acquire practical experience with key QA tools and technologies. They will use Artificial Intelligence (AI) integration, automated testing, Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagramming, and browser developer tools for efficient test management. Students are introduced to using Artificial Intelligence (AI) for assisted verification, tracking and reporting bugs. Exercises and labs will include using popular open-source QA software testing and tracking tools, plus writing unit tests in a Java environment with JUnit. Additional topics include Black Box, White Box and Grey Box, Unit testing for Quality Assurance (QA), Quality Control (QC) planning, and test execution. Automated testing topics include constructing an automation framework, scripting techniques, generating test data, and test architecture will be discussed. COMP 3839 is an elective in the CST FLEX Diploma, as well as the Web and Mobile Development (WMA), and Applied Software Development (ASD) Associate Certificates. Upon completion, successful students will be able to create automated test scripts with Selenium IDE, monitor test processes, evaluate test results, and conduct testing to industry standards. They will have experience with software testing methods, creating a Quality Assurance plan and a test plan. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2501 and 60% in COMP 2831 course outline | 3.0
COMP 3839 | Data Quality Improvement Continuing on from COMP 1630 , this hands-on course is aimed at students who already understand relational database, data modeling, and the importance of improving Data Quality (DQ). COMP 3839 starts by e​xploring the strategic goals and business value of establishing baselines for Data Quality improvement. Key topics include the business impact of data quality, data profiling techniques, Capability and Maturity models, plus Data Quality improvement roadmaps. Stra tegies for securing executive support, Data Contracts and Data Mesh, and Data Observability practices will also be discussed. Labs, exercises, assignments, and a project emphasize how to prioritize, plan, and execute data cleaning efforts, using both traditional techniques and AI tools to assess and enhance data quality. Data Quality supports for Data Engineering and Data Governance approaches will be introduced. Homework assignments and a project focus on how to use DQ techniques with AI to measure data quality. COMP 3839 is a required course in the Applied Database Administration and Design (ADAD) Associate Certificate; the Applied Data Analytics Certificate (ADAC) and an elective in the Computer Systems Technology (CST FLEX) Diploma. Successful participants learn how to apply a data quality framework to data migration projects and are better prepared to move on to higher-level data modelling, business intelligence and data analytics courses. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1630 course outline | 1.5
COMP 3841 | Introduction to Data Warehouses with Big Data Continuing on from COMP 1630, this hands-on course is a primer for data warehouse and data analytics with Big Data. Students must already understand industry standards in data modelling, relational database design and creating reports with SQL. COMP 3841 begins with an exploration of different Big Data systems. Participants must provide their own current model Windows capable PC, i5 or higher equivalent processor, 8 GB of RAM minimum, and 256 GB minimum storage. High-speed internet access is needed for online sections and for homework. Labs and assignments use a web browser to access course content. Exercises focus on data ingestion, data extraction, data transformation, accessing/querying data, and data visualization. Students conduct a big data analysis with practical, real-world examples and focus on how to populate and analyze vast data sets using a case-study approach. Topics include an overview of different data stores, querying data with visualizations, and an overview of Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) process in the data warehouse. COMP 3841 is a required course in the Applied Data Analytics Certificate (ADAC) and an elective in the Computer Systems Technology (CST FLEX) Diploma. Upon completion, successful students will be able to leverage and maintain a large-scale data warehouse for Business Intelligence.​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 1630 course outline | 1.5
COMP 3854 | AWS Generative AI for Data Analytics ​​This hands-on course follows on from COMP 2853 - Introduction to Python for Data Analysis and COMP 2854 -Data Analytics Fundamentals. Students will explore prompt engineering fundamentals, craft effective instructions for AI tools and compare the strengths of different GenAI platforms in real-world analytics scenarios. COMP 3854 starts with an introduction to using Generative AI technologies for enhanced data analytics. Labs and exercises use AI-assisted tools to generate and refine SQL queries, design, and implement data pipelines, and build agentic workflows for advanced data exploration using AWS services. Key topics include AI-driven code generation and troubleshooting, interactive data visualizations, and the application of responsible AI and data privacy principles. Participants will also gain practical experience in designing and validating data warehouse schemas with AI guidance and will analyse cross-industry case studies to see how GenAI is transforming data analytics. ​Successful students will complete a capstone project with an end-to-end AI-augmented data analysis from raw data to final presentation. They will have developed skills to use AI tools for efficient, ethical, and innovative data solutions. Prerequisite(s): 60% in COMP 2853 and 60% in COMP 2854 course outline | 3.0
COMP 3925 | Computer Projects Practicum 1 This hands-on project practicum course includes an online component and allows students to work on industry projects with faculty guidance. Our industry sponsored projects are drawn from a variety of sources, and equire extensive contact with clients in the business community. Students work in teams under the direction of a subject matter expert who is a Full-time Computing faculty member acting as their project supervisor. COMP 3925 is an elective in the CST FLEX Diploma and equivalent to COMP 3800; the Full-time CST Diploma Computer Projects course. ​Candidates must have completed Full-time CST Year 1 or the Computer Systems Certificate (CSC) in Flexible Learning. Full-time CST students may take this project course in the summer to lighten their workload in the fall and winter. Registration requires Computing Flexible Learning department approval. COMP 3925 is offered once a year in the spring/summer term. Prerequisite(s): Completion of the Part-time Computer Systems Certificate (CSC) in Flexible Learning, or Full-time CST Level 2. course outline | 5.0
COMP 4016 | Applied DevOps with Kubernetes ​This hands-on course replaces COMP 3916 –Docker for DevOps as of April 2023. It is aimed at web software developers who want to use current DevOps standards to reduce service downtime. Software developers who can create web-based applications, are introduced to best practices and techniques to create software services resilient to failures. COMP 4016 starts with an overview of DevOps. Labs and exercises cover the basics of Docker including creating Docker images and debugging containers. Participants are then introduced to Kubernetes, an open source platform for managing containerized workloads and services. Assignments focus on best practices to automate DevOps operations to reduce on-call work, and how to leverage Kubernetes self-healing features. There is a focus on the use of automatic scalers to react to bursts of traffic and monitor the current state of the service. YAML (a data-serialization language) is used configure Kubernetes and to program running services. Students practice how to automate typical human elements and inputs to apply different DevOps concepts to a running service. COMP 4016 is an elective course the CST FLEX Diploma and several BCIT Computing Associate Certificates. DevOps students should also consider completing COMP 2833 - Agile Scrum Methods, for additional skills. Upon completion, successful students will have working knowledge of DevOps. They will be able to use Docker and Kubernetes to orchestrate automation, to reduce costs and downtime for software as a service. Students without the specific BCIT prerequisites, who have equivalent knowledge of Web Software Application Development with PHP, and or Java Web or ASP are welcome to apply. COMP 4016 will be offered once a year in the fall (September) term.​​ Prerequisite(s): (60% in COMP 3015 or 60% in COMP 4015) or 60% in COMP 3601 or 60% in COMP 4602 course outline | 3.0
XCOM 3840 | Technical Presentations ​Acquiring effective communication and presentation skills will help advance your career and bring positive attention to your projects and ideas. In this course, you will review sample speeches, perform audience and purpose analysis for your own project, rehearse effective public speaking techniques, and deliver your final presentation to a wider audience. Students can present on a school project from one of their technical courses, an entrepreneurial idea, or a current work project. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
Note: Credit will be granted for only one of: COMP 2768 or COMP 2767 COMP 3680 or COMP 4677 or COMP 3682 COMP 3681 or COMP 3700 or COMP 3682 Students should check Computing Flexible Learning Course and Program Changes for equivalents to COMP 3012 and COMP 3013.
Total Credits: | 120.0
Check current availability of courses for this program.
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
The Computer Systems Technology Diploma ( CST FLEX ) requires 60 unique credits on top of the 60 credits in the Computer Systems Certificate (CSC), for a total of 120 credits.
65% of the CST FLEX Diploma required courses include: IT Project Management, Advanded Web Application Development, C++, Applied IT Security, Ethics for Computing Professionals, Advanced Web Applications, Data Communications, Object-Oriented Design, Algorithms, Operating Systems and Statistics.
35% of the CST FLEX Diploma comprised a variety of advanced application development courses. Students have elective options that include Visual Analytics, Linux, Networking, Java, C#, Advanced Web, DevOps and a Practicum project.
The CST FLEX Diploma is course by course registration and designed to be delivered one course at a time. It is aimed at those who are working full-time. Due to prerequisites and scheduling it is not possible to complete the CSC and CST FLEX Diploma in any less than 4 years.
Timelines:
Most CST FLEX students typically complete 1-2 courses per term over a period of 3-4 years. Some students who are not working full-time may consider 3 courses per term and potentially complete this second half of the CST FLEX Diploma in 2 years.
Note to Full-time CST Students: CST FLEX parallels the second year of the Full-time CST Diploma, Level 3 and Level 4. Students who drop full-time CST may have credit if they want to complete the CST FLEX Diploma.
Please read the CST FLEX Diploma “Program Entry” section and the Computing Flexible Learning Student Guide before registering for any COMP courses.
For course and program planning before applying to the CST FLEX Diploma, please email: cstflex@bcit.ca
Computer hardware and Internet requirements
Students must provide a current model PC desktop or laptop with a webcam, microphone and have high-speed internet access. COMP courses may use two-way audio and video as well as group work outside of class.
The curriculum may be modified in accordance with industry trends. Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
### Program delivery
Blended: This program has courses that are delivered on campus or partly on campus and partly online.
Please check the individual course schedule pages. Some COMP courses are delivered entirely online and others are entirely on campus. Several course sections in CST have a blended delivery with synchronous on campus classes, and others have synchronous online classes, while both options may include required asynchronous online components.
### Program location
Courses may be offered at the following locations:
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
Downtown Campus 555 Seymour Street Vancouver, BC
Distance and online learning
## Graduating & Jobs
### Sector 2025 snapshot
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation.
The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
### Apply for graduation
Upon successful completion of all program requirements, please complete the Application for BCIT Credential web form and allow approximately six to eight weeks for processing.
All financial obligations to the Institute must be met prior to the issuance of any credential.
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
### Computing – Flexible Learning and Industry Training
- Karen Lee, PA
- Vanessa Leung, PA
- Joanne Atha, Operations Coordinator
- Kevin Cudihee, Program Head
- Donna Turner, Associate Dean, BCIT Computing
### Computing Curriculum Committee (CC)
### Advisory committee
BCIT is well-respected by employers for its ties to the industry. In Computing, this connection is formalized through a Program Advisory Committee (PAC) comprised of experts in a range of roles from a cross-section of companies. The department consults regularly to ensure program currency and relevance.
## Contact Us
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
