URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/ecological-restoration-master-of-science-full-time-part-time-m410msc/
Title: Ecological Restoration
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Ecological Restoration
Master of Science Full-time/Part-time School of Construction and the Environment
## Overview
Note: Applicants interested in the thesis option should contact the program area prior to submitting an application to confirm availability of a faculty supervisor.
Delivery: blended. See details .
The BCIT MSc in Ecological Restoration offers a unique, interdisciplinary curriculum to provide you with the science-based knowledge and practical skills necessary to deliver effective restoration programs, while leading respectful engagement with right-holder communities.
This MSc program can be completed in two academic years and has two options:
- Course-based: Combines an intensive set of courses with a one-term applied ecological restoration project. Coursework includes 18 credits for the core courses, 9 credits in specialized ecological restoration electives, and 3 credits in the applied ecological restoration project.
- Thesis-based: Requires a smaller set of courses and more intensive research work in a master’s thesis. Coursework includes 18 credits for the core courses and 12 credits for the thesis. The degree consists of a year of courses plus 52 weeks of thesis research or more as needed.
Both options offer applied research experience and a custom path to specialization within the ecological restoration discipline, either through intensive research work in a thesis or through an applied ecological restoration project and the completion of specialized courses with a strong hands-on component.
The core program consists of six courses designed to lay a common foundation in theoretical and applied concepts of ecological restoration, research methods, project management skills, and social environmental skills. The courses were specifically planned to offer you a balance between theoretical concepts and applied hands-on training. Core courses will focus on preparing you to identify the ecological problem, critically assess the information available, and develop a scientifically defensible restoration plan, while engaging the communities involved and developing strong partnerships.
You will learn to be adaptable and resourceful and to communicate well, while maintaining a high level of professionalism and scientific rigour. These skills will be highly transferable to many disciplines, beyond the specific field of ecological restoration.
### About the program
Why Ecological Restoration?
Ecological Restoration is an intentional activity that initiates or accelerates the recovery of an ecosystem with respect to its health, integrity, and sustainability. Natural habitats around the world have been severely impacted by anthropogenic influences, such as climate change, catastrophic fire and flood events, invasive species, contamination of soils, degradation of aquatic environments, and the cumulative effects of past and current land-management and resource-extraction practices. These impacts and the need to restore habitat for at-risk species have led to an urgent need for ecosystem restoration work across BC, Canada, and the rest of the world. Given that there are still few graduate programs with this specialization in North America, you will play an important role in the advancement of the knowledge and practice of ecological restoration in Canada and internationally.
Why choose the BCIT MSc in Ecological Restoration?
- This program fills an important gap in the ecological restoration employment sector. An alumni survey of the previous version of this MSc program indicated 93% of respondents were employed in a field related to ecological restoration.
- You will learn essential skills for project management, communication, and strong community engagement, including Indigenous peoples’ perspectives on ecological restoration.
- You will be able to specialize in one of two fundamental areas of ecological restoration: aquatic or terrestrial ecosystems.
- You will gain practical experience restoring degraded ecosystems in Canada’s most diverse province, with ecosystems ranging from Canada’s only true desert to temperate rain forests, from marine environments to alpine ecosystems.
- You will have the opportunity to connect with the environmental industry via client-based research projects.
The program will consist of both coursework and applied research components. Coursework for the core program will be mainly conducted at BCIT’s Burnaby campus . The use of experiential learning is a major strength of the existing program, with many practical exercises offered in-class at BCIT or through many day trips and week-long field sessions throughout BC.
Some courses (second-year electives) will be offered as flexible learning (part-time studies) and blended models where students outside the Lower Mainland can join the class digitally. Please contact the Program Assistant for details.
Check out our virtual info session for more information.
### What grads can do
Graduates from this program will be able to:
- Critically assess degraded ecosystems within different scales (local to regional) and locations (domestic to international) and identify primary causal factors contributing to the declining state of target ecosystems.
- Design a restoration prescription unique to the target site, project goals, and desired outcomes by integrating ecological principles (theoretical) with abiotic and biotic processes to develop applied restoration techniques.
- Incorporate current and emerging technologies to conduct planning, implementation, and monitoring of comprehensive ecological restoration prescriptions.
- Develop and initiate detailed monitoring programs needed to assess desired outcomes of specific restoration programs and to identify approaches for future adaptive management.
- Modify the restoration approach as deemed appropriate, based on monitoring results within an adaptive management framework.
- Establish strong, scientifically based approaches to reduce uncertainties in the field of restoration ecology, including climate adaptation.
- Act as a team leader and engage in respectful community engagement and planning of ecological restoration programs.
- Communicate effectively to initiate and conduct restoration programs successfully.
- Develop and apply project management guidelines, including legal and regulatory guidelines, for each stage of a restoration project.
- Display and encourage behaviour and comportment that reflect integrity, responsibility, and the values and ethics of professional restoration practitioners.
- Integrate practices and protocols guided by Traditional Ecological Knowledge and Indigenous peoples’ values.
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
Note: The Thesis Option intake is currently waitlisting applications. Applicants interested in the thesis option should contact the program area prior to submitting an application to confirm availability of a faculty supervisor.
Full-time and part-time applications will be accepted as follows:
- First round: October 1st* to December 31st*
- Second round: January 1st* to March 31st*
- Third round: April 1st* to June 15th*
*or next business day
This program has multiple application deadlines and may fill after each deadline date.
We recommend you apply early . All supporting documents must be submitted by the application deadline to be considered.
### Entrance requirements
Competitive entry: two-step process
Preference will be given to applicants who have:
- Academic grades above the minimum.
- Taken courses in Ecological Restoration and other relevant courses.
- Relevant work experience.
Applicants with preferred entrance requirements are to submit transcripts and supporting documentation with their online application.
Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements
- English language proficiency: Graduate Studies – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Post-secondary education: a four-year bachelor’s degree in ecological restoration, ecology, or related program from a recognized post-secondary institution with a cumulative grade-point average (GPA) of at least 2.8* (70%), or a GPA of at least 3.0* (75%) based on the last 60 credits/units of undergraduate courses that includes: One introductory course in ecology One introductory course in statistics Two upper-level courses in any combination of: biology, ecology (plant, fish, wildlife, restoration/reclamation, etc.), statistics, plants science, soil science, physical geography (hydrology, geomorphology, limnology, etc.), forest science, natural resource management, environmental science, or related *Based on a 4.0 GPA scale.
- Complete the following form for submission with your online application: Mandatory Applicant Questionnaire [PDF] : This form will be used with other entrance requirements in the competitive selection for the program.
Applicants currently in the final term of their bachelor’s degree must be on track to graduate by May prior to the start of the intake and may be conditionally accepted based on successful completion of their degree.
Applicants who have completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand will require a comprehensive evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES) . Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered. These reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations.
Step 2: Department assessment
All applications that meet the minimum entrance requirements will be reviewed by the Graduate Program Committee. At the end of each application-submission deadline, all applications forwarded to the Committee will be ranked out of 100 points. There are five review categories, weighed differently: GPA (40%), Relevant Courses (40%), References (20%), Work Experience (Bonus 15%), and completed courses in Ecological Restoration (Bonus 15%). Admission is competitive and will be offered to the most qualified applicants.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : Only the full-time option of this program currently meets the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
( CIPC : 26.1301)
### Transfer credit
Transfer credits may be available for students who have similar graduate-level courses to those offered within the student’s area of specialization. Transfer of credits for equivalent courses will be granted on a case-by-case basis and assessed by the Graduate Program Committee.
Please contact the program area to determine equivalency prior to enrolling in courses at another institution.
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### Prior Learning Assessment & Recognition (PLAR)
Prior Learning Assessment Recognition (PLAR) lets you use knowledge and skills learned outside recognized programs—including volunteer work, hobbies, on-the-job experience, or independent study—to gain exemption for particular courses in the program of your choice.
Your knowledge and skills will be assessed, course by course, by the Applied Research Committee and the associated faculty members. In general, applicants should be prepared to demonstrate working knowledge of the majority (>80%) of the material within a course. The Applied Research Committee will assess the applicant’s level of knowledge (conceptual and applied) and provide details of the evaluation criterion (e.g., challenge an exam, demonstrate working knowledge of applied concepts, or complete an assignment).
Please see BCIT's Prior Learning Assessment & Recognition page for further details.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Costs & Supplies
### Tuition fees
Full-time Studies
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
Flexible Learning
Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) tuition is charged on a course-by-course basis. Please see the Flexible Learning Tuition & Fees page for more information on domestic and international tuitions.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Course requirements
This program consists of 30 credits or 10 courses. The courses are divided into core and elective courses. Core courses are built into the program, while elective courses are chosen by the student with approval from the Supervisor for program relevance. Students in the course-based program must take three elective courses.
Under the Western Dean’s Agreement, students will be able to take approved electives at other participating post-secondary institutions in BC (SFU, UBC, UVic, UNBC, University of the Fraser Valley, Trinity Western, and TRU) or in other western provinces. Courses available as electives must have a minimum requirement of addressing five of the eleven program goals. Only courses at the graduate level contribute to the minimum of 30 credits needed for graduation from the program.
### Class hours
For in-class courses, classes will be scheduled as 3-hour sessions per week for 15 weeks. Most classes will be scheduled on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays (subject to change). Exceptions are the electives, which will be delivered according to their specific schedule and faculty availability. Specific times when classes are scheduled will vary depending on classroom availability and instructors’ schedules.
### Program matrix
Check current availability of courses for this program.
Level 1: Fall Term (15 weeks - September to December) | Credits
ECOR 9100 | Concepts of Ecological Restoration & the Biotic and Abiotic Environment The course provides students with a foundation of ecological theory and concepts relevant to the restoration of biotic and abiotic components and their interactions. These concepts are examined through the study of fluvial ecosystems, their attributes, processes, geomorphology, and their interactions and effects on various biological components.​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the M.Sc. Program. course outline | 3.0
ECOR 9110 | Planning and Monitoring for Ecological Restoration ​The course develops broad knowledge and skills needed to plan and implement restoration activities. The course begins by reviewing a step-by-step process applicable to a wide range of ecosystems for developing, implementing, monitoring, and refining on-the-ground restoration projects. Significant attention is dedicated to designing monitoring programs needed to assess restoration success, including appropriate use of statistical design and qualitative information. Students identify and critically review a restoration plan in terms of this step-by-step process. A major component of this course involves students incrementally developing a restoration and monitoring plan for a degraded site.​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the M.Sc. Program course outline | 3.0
ECOR 9140 | Indigenous and Social Perspectives on Ecological Restoration 1 ​This is the first of two courses exploring the human-nature relationship based on values and perspectives of Indigenous peoples. This first course will explore the historical and contemporary relations between Indigenous peoples and their traditional lands as it relates to stewardship decision making. Lectures, group discussions, and case studies are used to guide students to expand the scope of ecological stewardship and think about how to consider indigenous values among diverse perspectives and propose a commonly accepted solution to a hypothetical ecological restoration scenario. The course will set the stage for students to incorporate diverse world visions into their work as restoration practitioners.​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the MSc Program course outline | 1.5
ECOR 9150 | Graduate Seminar in Research Methods ​This course examines the philosophical foundations of science, the nature of scientific disputes, and the relevance of these to ecology. Students discuss some fundamental concepts, including science, the scientific method, reliable knowledge, poor science, hypothetical-deductive approach, hypothesis testing, and experimental design. This course is designed to strengthen critical-thinking skills when reviewing current information and when formulating new activities in ecological restoration. This is a seminar-based course in which students present assigned readings, then lead class discussions to help students develop their professional philosophy and critical-thinking skills. Students design a restoration proposal detailing a scientifically research approach to testing a relevant ecological restoration hypothesis. ​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the MSc Program course outline | 3.0
Students in the Thesis Option must also complete:
ECOR 9170 | Thesis Concept ​In ECOR 9170 students will conceptualize and formulate a manageable restoration project or research question. This includes identifying a thesis topic and objectives, an academic supervisor, and a general approach to addressing their research objectives. During the course students will be revisiting writing specific objectives with measurable outcomes, integrating Indigenous peoples' perspectives, and initially applying concepts from the research methods class. Students will identify what permits will be required for their research. ​ Prerequisite(s): Registered into the Thesis Option course outline | 1.0
Level 2: Winter Term (15 weeks - January to April) | Credits
ECOR 9240 | Indigenous and Social Perspectives on Ecological Restoration 2 ​This is the second of two courses exploring the integration of Indigenous peoples' values and traditional knowledge into the practice of ecological restoration. This course will explore how the traditional knowledge and engagement of local communities, in particular Indigenous peoples, is fundamental to the successful management, implementation, and monitoring of ecological restoration projects. Lectures, group discussions, and case studies will be used to review ethical conduct and protocols for working within Indigenous communities. Techniques to communicate with Indigenous community rightsholders in an effective and respectful manner will be reinforced and integrated into a communication and engagement plan.​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in ECOR 9140 course outline | 1.5
ECOR 9260 | Project Management and Community Engagement ​This course provides students with an introduction to project planning, management, and key policies that guide ecological restoration. Students will participate in real-world situations, including bidding on a Request for Proposal (RFP) for an ecological restoration project for the class to actively manage from initiation to close-out. Students will identify current policies, including those related to climate change adaptation, that may impact their work as restoration ecologists and debate their pros and cons​.​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in ECOR 9110 course outline | 3.0
and
ECOR 9210 | Restoration of Terrestrial Ecosystems ​In this course students will learn to identify and assess key attributes of ecosystems in the Pacific Northwest such as soil properties, species composition, structural diversity, ecosystem function, and landscape flow. In addition, students will identify critical stressors and their effects, including those of climate change, and appropriate restoration techniques to be used in different ecosystems. The students will design a restoration plan for a specific degraded terrestrial ecosystem with an emphasis on soil management and revegetation components​. Prerequisite(s): 60% in ECOR 9100 and 60% in ECOR 9110 course outline | 3.0
or
ECOR 9220 | Restoration of Lentic Ecosystems ​This course provides an overview of limnology. It focuses on specific aspects of theoretical and applied limnology and environmental engineering required to undertake ecological restoration of lakes and reservoirs. The overview lectures discuss lake formation and basin morphometry, stratification and circulation, water chemistry (including nutrient and carbonate chemistry), BOD tests, and hypolimnetic oxygen depletion. Applied aspects of the course include experimentally determining re-aeration rates and sizing of hypolimnetic aeration/oxygenation and destratification systems, calculation of nutrient-loading programs for lake and reservoir enrichment, calculation of heat budgets, and use of nutrient-loading models to assess eutrophication risk. Students design a restoration proposal for a eutrophic winterkill lake.​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in ECOR 9100 and 60% in ECOR 9110 and 60% in ECOR 9150 course outline | 3.0
Students in the Thesis Option must also complete:
ECOR 9270 | Thesis Proposal ​In ECOR 9270 students will finalize their research proposal. The full proposal should include all details of the research, experimental design, statistics used (if appropriate), and milestones and deliverables. During the course students will reinforce many of the concepts presented in level one and two of the program, including experimental design, communicating with Indigenous peoples, the concepts of planning and monitoring in ER, project management, and public engagement. In addition to the proposal, students must develop a detailed safety plan, budget, and apply for all permits needed for their research.​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in ECOR 9170 course outline | 1.0
Thesis Option: Spring/Summer Term & Year 2 (52 weeks) | Credits
Students in the Thesis Option will begin the thesis in the spring/summer term and have one year to complete their thesis.
ECOR 9600 | Thesis ​In this course, students complete, present, and submit their thesis as partial fulfillment of the Master of Science in Ecological Restoration degree (Thesis Option). Their thesis should be based on original investigation and must demonstrate scholarship and critical judgement, as well as familiarity with methods of research and relevant literature in their chosen focus of ecological restoration. The thesis should be at a high level of originality and examine an issue/ecological problem in depth. ​ Prerequisite(s): Successful completion of required courses in the first year of the program course outline | 10.0
Level 3: Fall Term (September to December) | Credits
Course-based Option Electives*: Students in the Course-based Option must complete a total of 9.0 credits of electives from the courses listed in levels 2, 3, and 4.
ECOR 9301 | Restoration of Wetland and Estuarine Ecosystems ​This course covers the fundamentals of wetland and estuary form, function, classification and restoration in Canada and internationally. The wetland section of the course covers Canadian wetland classification, mechanisms of wetland loss, the importance of wetlands in storing carbon, and the physical, chemical and biological mechanisms by which constructed wetlands remove pollutants from urban storm water. The steps for building groundwater wetlands, surface water wetlands, wetlands with liners, and floating wetlands will be examined, in addition to the steps for building and maintaining constructed wetlands. The estuary section of the course covers estuary classification, reviews the ecological importance of estuaries, especially for salmonids, and reviews the physical, chemical and biological aspects of estuaries. Emerging Western Science and traditional eco-cultural strategies for restoring estuaries is covered, including dealing with invasive species (plant and animal), legacy contaminants, non-migratory goose herbivory, and sea level rise. The course will focus on re-establishing the carbon flux and storage in the estuaries through re planting of sub-tidal eelgrass, emergent sedges, management of goose herbivory, and strategic placement of large woody debris.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ECOR 9302 | Restoring Wildlife: Ecological Concepts & Practical Application ​Restoration plans must consider the needs of current or desired wildlife species in project areas. This course gives students the tools they need to understand essential ecological concepts, helping them to design restoration projects that can improve conditions for native species of wildlife. This course interweaves theoretical and practical aspects of wildlife biology that are directly applicable to the restoration and conservation of animals. It provides an understanding of the fundamentals of wildlife populations and wildlife-habitat relationships as it explores the concept of habitat, its historic development, components, spatial-temporal relationships, and role in land management. It applies these concepts in developing practical tools for professionals​. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ECOR 9305 | Statistical Applications for Ecological Restoration ​This course introduces students to fundamental statistical tools for the analysis of environmental data. Competencies will be guided by student needs and may include an overview of basic parametric statistics (e.g., t-tests, analysis of variance, linear regression), multivariate analyses (e.g., multivariate analysis of variance, principal components analysis, cluster analysis, canonical correspondence analysis, redundancy analysis, multidimensional scaling), advanced linear regression procedures (e.g., linear mixed effects models, generalized linear models, Akaike information criterium, maximum likelihood, Bayesian inference), and non-parametric approaches. The course is taught from an applied perspective, with less emphasis on theory and more focus on providing hands-on training in the use of statistical analyses. Students apply analytical methods using R statistical software. ​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in ECOR 9150 Introductory course in statistics course outline | 3.0
ECOR 9500 | Directed Studies The Directed Study course aims to provide students the opportunity to undertake supervised elements of study that are not offered elsewhere across BCIT, UBC, SFU or another post-secondary institute available through the Western Dean's Agreement. While students are expected to select courses whenever possible from the available structured academic offerings, students may pursue through directed study a complementary course that has a supportive focus to the curriculum within the Ecological Restoration Graduate Program. The directed study course is structured to allow pursuit of a well-formulated and synthesized study plan. The course may be completed individually or with more than one student (with approval of the Graduate Program Committee). The directed study course is separate from the Applied Research Project (ECOR 9300 and 9400) and will not constitute a part of the final Capstone submission. The student must submit a Directed Studies Approval Form (See Graduate Student Handbook). The Directed Studies Approval Form outlines the statement of intent, objectives, milestones and schedule and includes a supporting bibliography. The form is to be signed by the student's Supervisor and Program Director/Head prior to the student's eligibility to register for this elective. The student works under the direction of their Supervisor or other BCIT faculty approved by the Supervisor. The student and supervisor shall meet as required. Prerequisite(s): With completion of the Directed Studies Approval Form and the Supervisor's and Program Head/Director Approval. course outline | 3.0
Level 4: Winter Term (January to April) | Credits
Students in the Course-based Option must complete:
ECOR 9550 | Application of Planning and Monitoring for Ecological Restoration In this course, students work in teams to develop an evidence-based ecological restoration project. The content and activities of the courses are structured to support the development of the project, and to deepen students' knowledge, understanding and skills to investigate and resolve problems relevant to ecological restoration at the Master of Science level. Using their research skills, s​tudents work on a new restoration project or restoration plan, or on the monitoring and assessment of an existing one, in collaboration with a project partner. The ecological restoration project should include experimental design, data collection, analysis, and interpretation. ​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in ECOR 9100 and 60% in ECOR 9110 and 60% in ECOR 9150 course outline | 3.0
Course-based Option Electives*: Students in the Course Option must complete a total of 9.0 credits of electives from the courses listed in levels 2, 3, and 4.
ECOR 9304 | Restoration of Lotic Ecosystems ​​This course covers stream and river restoration techniques with an emphasis on strategies to mitigate losses of salmonid habitat in British Columbia (BC) and the Pacific Northwest (PNW). The course examines physical, chemical, thermal, and biological restoration technologies used, in BC and PNW, some of which are new and innovative, while others have been used extensively over the last 100 years. Aspects of this course include: construction of groundwater spawning channels, development of off-channel habitats, placement of in-stream woody debris and boulders, stream fertilization, hypolimnetic cold-water withdrawal, and fish passage and culvert re-design. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ECOR 9310 | Advanced Applications for Restoration of Terrestrial Ecosystems ​In this course, students gain a deeper understanding of the applications of fire science in ecological restoration. They also develop the ability to identify and address mine reclamation challenges that result from complex interactions among environmental, engineering, regulatory, and social factors, acquiring the tools to plan for the “highest level of post-mining restoration to support the global need for protecting and restoring nature."​ Prerequisite(s): 60% in ECOR 9100 and 60% in ECOR 9110 and 60% in ECOR 9210 course outline | 3.0
*Please contact the Program Head if you are planning to take electives at another institution.
Total Credits: | 30.0
Check current availability of courses for this program.
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
The program consists of both coursework and applied components. The use of experiential learning is a major strength of the program, with many courses offered in-class at BCIT or in the field. Through experiential learning, students integrate and apply theories, concepts, and observations firsthand. Through experiential learning, students will experience the variability and uniqueness of ecosystems and the difficulty of applying the same concepts to all sites.
A case-based learning method will also be used throughout the program to provide students exposure to restoring ecosystems in other areas of the world. Case studies will illustrate how concepts can be integrated and applied to complex ecological systems. Students will be actively engaged in discussion of specific problems in complex, real-world situations. This method is student-centred and involves the exchange of ideas among participants. The instructor’s role will be that of a facilitator, while students address problems collaboratively.
A key component of the Ecological Restoration degree will be the field visits to active restoration projects in the Lower Mainland and other parts of the province. The extensive ecological disturbance and damage that has occurred throughout the Lower Mainland provides real-world opportunities to apply skills in a broad range of restoration activities. Real-world scenarios in ecological restoration will be presented through assignments and team-based projects within courses. These projects will allow students to apply their knowledge from classroom and lab sessions.
### Professional development
Professionals working in the ecological restoration discipline can take a number of ER-specific courses without applying to the program. Professional development students must satisfy the prerequisites for any course and will require approval by the Graduate Program Committee to ensure candidates are suited for success in the course. These ER-specific courses may be in-person or offered in a blended model to facilitate professionals taking courses from outside the Lower Mainland of BC.
Courses available for professional development:
- ECOR 9301 – Restoration of Wetland and Estuarine Ecosystems (requires a week-long wetland building session in early September)
- ECOR 9302 – Restoring Wildlife: Ecological Concepts & Practical Application
- ECOR 9304 – Restoration of Lotic Ecosystems
- ECOR 9310 – Advanced Applications for Restoration of Terrestrial Ecosystems (requires a week-long session in early September)
- Other courses may be added to meet demands. Please inquire with the Program Head or Program Assistant .
- To apply, email your undergraduate transcript and curriculum vitae to the Program Head or Program Assistant .
### Program length
Two years, full-time.
The maximum time to complete this program is seven years.
### Grading
Each student is required to maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 out of 4.0 (75%).
The overall progress of students in the program will be monitored and evaluated by the Graduate Program Committee, and a report on each student’s progress will be sent to the Graduate Program Committee once a year. If the student’s progress is deemed to be unsatisfactory by the Graduate Program Committee, the student may be required to withdraw or improve in specific ways within a defined period of time.
### Accreditation
To practice as a professional biologist in British Columbia, one must be a member of the College of Applied Biology (the College) .
To qualify for certification by the College, applicants require 25 courses (13 of which have a biology focus), three years of work experience in applied biology, and completion of two to four professional work products (PWP). For many students, the coursework they completed in their undergraduate studies, coupled with applied biology-based courses in this MSc program, may satisfy all academic requirements for accreditation if their major is strongly focused on applied biology. 

In addition, graduates from the MSc in ER program may use their time in the program to fulfill 12 months of the three-year work experience period needed for accreditation. Similarly, for graduates from the thesis option, their thesis may fulfil one of the required PWP needed for accreditation. Please refer to the College page for updated requirements and additional details on the Credentialing Standard.
### Program delivery
Blended: This program is delivered partly on campus and partly online.
This program is primarily delivered on campus. Electives may be delivered in a blended model comprised of simultaneous in-person and web-based attendance.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
Distance and online learning
## Graduating & Jobs
### Job opportunities
There is currently a shortage of qualified restoration biologists and practitioners trained in the techniques needed to restore terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems in BC, other jurisdictions in Canada, and abroad. Similarly, there are few opportunities to complete a graduate-level program in ecological restoration in North America. This program will provide a solid foundation for students wishing to embark upon a career involving the conservation, maintenance, and restoration of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.
A 2022 survey of alumni conducted as part of a recently completed program review for the previous joint MSc in Ecological Restoration indicated that 93% of respondents were employed in a field related to ecological restoration. This finding demonstrates the program is successfully meeting an important labour need. Graduates from this new master’s program will continue to be highly competitive for employment in the private sector (environmental consulting firms, independent restoration contractors, utility companies, and oil/gas/mine reclamation projects), government (federal, provincial, regional, and municipal), and conservation organizations (Nature Conservancy of Canada, Audubon Society, Ducks Unlimited, British Columbia Wildlife Federation’s Wetland Institute, Habitat Conservation Trust Fund, watershed stewardship groups, land trusts, and conservancy organizations). Furthermore, recognized labour market reports such as the British Columbia Labour Market Outlook 2022–2032 Forecast suggest that environmental jobs in Canada will have strong growth in the coming decade and that “the natural and applied sciences and related occupational group will expand its workforce faster than other occupational groups.”
As an important indicator of student demand, the previous Master’s program has seen an increasing number of applicants since 2015. From 2015 to 2022 the number of applications has ranged from 28 (in 2015) to 140 (in 2021).
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
### Program Head
Douglas B. Ransome, PhD, RPBio
Contact Information Faculty and Program Head, MSc in Ecological Restoration Tel: 604-431-4985 Email: Doug_Ransome@bcit.ca
Education
- PhD Forestry-Wildlife Integrated Management, Faculty of Forestry, University of British Columbia
- MSc Forestry-Wildlife Integrated Management, Faculty of Forestry, University of British Columbia
- BSc in Wildlife Management, University of Guelph
- BSc in General Biology, University of Windsor
Work experience
Dr. Ransome has been an instructor at BCIT since 2003. He teaches courses in Research Design and Restoring Wildlife Populations within the ER programs; and Wildlife Ecology and Management in BCIT’s Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation Program. His research interests include examining the effects of forest practices on various wildlife populations, particularly arboreal mammals (squirrels) and small mammals; restoring wildlife populations; and wildlife damage and techniques to reduce damage in forestry and agricultural operations. During this time at BCIT, he has been the Program Head for the BSc program in Ecological Restoration (2012-2018); Program Head (and Development Lead for the previous joint MSc Program in Ecological Restoration (2015-2019); and Program Head for this new MSc in Ecological Restoration.
Professional designation
Dr. Ransome is a Registered Professional Biologist in the province of BC. He was a past Director for the Society of Ecological Restoration (Western Canada Chapter) and past Director of the British Columbia Waterfowl Society. He is also a research associate with Applied Mammal Research Institute.
Courses taught:
- Wildlife Ecology & Management I & II (RENR 3220, 4220: FWR Diploma Program: 2003 – 2022). My emphasis was on providing the basic wildlife biology concepts (bioenergetics, habitat, sustained harvests, problem wildlife, managing forests for wildlife, etc.).
- Research Design and Implementation (B.Sc. (RENR 8301) & M.Sc. (ECOR 9150)), a course which focuses on the philosophy of science and epistemology and how to distinguish between well-conducted and poorly-conducted science, with an emphasis on ecological restoration.
- Restoring Wildlife Populations (B.Sc. (RENR 8107) and M.Sc. (ECOR 9103)). These courses take general ecological principles and customize the concepts to restore struggling wildlife populations. Students design restoration plans for red- and blue-listed species in BC as a major course requirement. Students critically evaluate current restoration plans and the scientific literature and recommend improvements to the suggested approaches.
- Applied Research Projects (MSc. 2015 – 2024). Students in the 2015-2024 MSc program had to conduct a 6-credit Applied Research Project (Capstone Project). They developed restoration plans or implemented an experimental design, to identify and remove stressors as the foundation for restoration. This involved a summer of fieldwork, with data analyses and ending with their MSc defence of their research. Here are some of the applied research projects or theses supervised: Monitoring Active Grizzly Bear Dens and Reproductive Output using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. MSc thesis, Royal Roads University, Victoria B.C. (In Progress). The Impact of Roadway Mortality on a Long-lived Freshwater Turtle, Chrysemys picta bellii – a Population Viability Analysis (2024). Determining the Accuracy of the Beaver Restoration Assessment Tool for Identifying North American Beaver ( Castor canadensis ) Habitat in the Central Interior Cariboo Region of British Columbia. Factoring in A Hydrological Model into the BRAT Model (2024). An Examination of Dabbling Duck Food Resource Availability Between High- and Low-Quality Restored Wetlands – a study into benthic macroinvertebrates (2024). Environmental Preferences of the Oregon Forest Snail: a Use-Versus-Availability Study (2024). Investigating Biotic Interactions as Limiting Factors of Burrowing Owl ( Athene cunicularia ) Population Recovery in British Columbia (2024). Restoration of Reed Canary Grass Invaded Wet Meadow Areas on Denman Island, British Columbia (2023). Assessing the Potential to Partner with Beavers ( Castor canadensis ) to Restore River and Riparian Habitat in the Gold River Watershed on Vancouver Island, British Columbia (2023). Prey Abundance and Temperature Impacts on Nest Success of Barn Swallow ( Hirundo rustica ) in the Little Campbell River Watershed, British Columbia (2023). Using Very High Frequency (VHF) Telemetry to Inform Nest-Site-Selection of Western Painted Turtle ( Chrysemys picta bellii ) in the Kootenay Region of British Columbia (2023). Structural Influence of Old Field on Breeding Summer Songbirds, and Overwintering Raptor Communities (2022). Can Landfill’s Provide Old-Field Habitat to the Townsend’s Vole ( Microtus townsendii )? & Can Mealworms Reduce Accidental Shrew ( Sorex spp.) Mortality in Live-Trapping? (2022). Impacts of Roads and Cranberry Agriculture on Bog Wetland Hydrology with Restoration Recommendations (2022). A Prey-based Approach to Restoration: Prioritizing the Habitat Requirements of Prey Species to Assist in the Recovery of the Coastal Northern Goshawk ( Accipiter gentilis laingi ) (2022). Western Painted Turtle ( Chrysemys picta bellii ) Nest Predation and Beach Habitat Quality Analysis at Nesting Beaches on the Sunshine Coast, British Columbia (2021). The Effects of Canada Goose ( Branta canadensis ) Herbivory and Snow Goose ( Chen caerulescens ) Herbivory on Tidal Marsh Recession at the Westham Island Marsh (2021). Factors Limiting the Expansion of Black-tailed Prairie Dog Colonies at Their Northern Extent (2020). Breeding Waterfowl Use of Restored Wetlands in the Cariboo Region of British Columbia (2020). Carrying Capacity of Plains Bison in Elk Island National Park Based on Foraging Rates: Based on Forage Availability (2019). Restoring Old-Growth Attributes: Quantifying physical attributes in two CWHdm site series in the Fraser Valley, British Columbia (2019). Trailside Restoration in Pacific Spirit Park, Vancouver, BC (2019). Restoring Hydro-impacted Wetlands for Secretive Marsh Bird Species (2019). Trailside Restoration in Pacific Spirit Park, Vancouver, B.C. (2018). A Look at the Apparent Decline of Western Chorus Frogs ( Pseudacris triseriata ) in Simcoe County and Durham Region, Ontario, Canada (2018). The Effects of Native vs. Non-native Vegetation on North American Breeding Bird Abundance, Diversity, and Behavior (2018). The Effects of Tree Thinning on Quality of Ungulate Winter Range in a Southern Interior Forest (IDF dm1) in British Columbia (2018). A Pilot Study to Evaluate Partial-cut Harvesting to Enhance Winter Forage for Southern Mountain Caribou in the Darkwoods, B.C. (2018). Experimental control of Centaurea stoebe (spotted knapweed) Within Critical Habitat of the Endangered Satyrium semiluna (half-moon hairstreak) Butterfly: A Pilot Study of Blakiston Fan, Waterton Lakes National Park, Alberta (2018). Nest-site Attributes and Nest Success of the Common Nighthawk (Chordeiles minor) in a coastal sand ecosystem (2017). Restoration of Old-Forest Characteristics in a 1957 Spacing Trial in the Malcolm Knapp Research Forest, British Columbia (2017). Treatment and Control of Wild Chervil ( Anthriscus sylvestris ) In Campbell Valley Regional Park. MSc thesis, Royal Roads University, Victoria B.C. (2017).
Selected publications
Ransome, D.B., Sullivan, T.P., P.M.F. Lindgren. (In Prep). Are northern flying squirrels a victim of poor science? A plea for better science.
Ransome , D.B. and T.P. Sullivan. (In Prep). Managing mammal damage agents in underplanted beetle-killed northern pine forests: Snowshoe hares and habitat alteration.
Ransome , D.B. and T.P. Sullivan. (In Prep). Managing mammal damage agents in underplanted beetle-killed northern pine forests: Vole populations and plantation protection.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2021. Acceleration of forest structural development for large trees and mammals: Restoration in decades or centuries? Forests doi.org/10.3390/f12040388.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, D.B. Ransome , and L. Zabek. 2020. Twenty-five years after stand thinning and repeated fertilization in lodgepole pine forest: Implications for tree growth, stand structure, and carbon sequestration. Forests 11, 337, doi:10.3390/f11030337.
Lindgren, P.M.F., T.P. Sullivan, D.S. Sullivan, D.B. Ransome , and L. Zabek. 2017. Long-term influence of stand thinning and repeated fertilization on forage production in young lodgepole pine forests. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 47: 1123-1130
Sullivan, T.P. D.B. Ransome , D.S. Sullivan, P.M.L. Lindgren, and W. Klenner. 2017. Tree squirrel abundance and demography in managed coniferous forests of British Columbia are within the range of natural fluctuations of old-growth stands. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 47:565582
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2013. Stand structure and small mammals in intensively managed forests: Scale, time, and testing extremes. Forest Ecology and Management 310 : 1071–1087.
Antoinette J. Piaggio, A.J., B.A. Coghlan, A.E. Miscampbell, W.M. Arjo, D.B. Ransome , and C.E. Ritland. 2013. Molecular phylogeny of an ancient rodent family (Aplodontiidae). Journal of Mammalogy 94: 529-543.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2012. If we build habitat, will they come? Woody debris structures and conservation of forest mammals. Journal of Mammalogy 93: 1456-1468.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2012. Silviculture and wildlife: Snowshoe hare abundance across a successional sequence of natural and intensively managed forests. ISRN Ecology 2012: 1-10.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, D.B. Ransome , J. Bull, and C. Ristea. 2011. Bioenergy or biodiversity: Woody debris structures and maintenance of red-backed voles on clearcuts. Biomass and Bioenergy 35: 4390-4398.
Ransome , D.B. 2010. Investigation of starling populations in British Columbia and assessment of the feasibility of a trapping program in the Lower Mainland: A report prepared for British Columbia Blueberry Council, Abbotsford, British Columbia.
Ransome , D.B., and T.P Sullivan. 2010 (2009, 2008, 2007). Managing mammal damage agents in MPB-killed stands. Forest Practices Branch, Ministry of Forests and Range, Victoria, B.C.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2010. Green-tree retention and life after the beetle: Stand structure and small mammals 30 years after salvage harvesting. Silva Fennica 44: 749-774.
Ransome , D.B., P.M.F. Lindgren, H. Armleder, M.J. Waterhouse, and T.P. Sullivan. 2009. Small mammal response to group selection silvicultural systems in Engelmann spruce-subalpine fir forests: 14 years post harvest. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 39: 1698-1708.
Lindgren, P.M.F., D.B. Ransome , D.S. Sullivan, and T.P. Sullivan. 2006. Plant community attributes 12 to 14 years following pre-commercial thinning in a young lodgepole pine forest. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 36: 48-61. (SFM)
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2005. Long-term responses of ecosystem components to stand thinning in young lodgepole pine forest II. Diversity and population dynamics of forest floor small mammals. Forest Ecology and Management 205: 1-14.
Ransome , D.B., P.M.F. Lindgren, D.S. Sullivan, and T.P. Sullivan. 2004. Long-term responses of ecosystem components to stand thinning in young lodgepole pine forest. I. Population dynamics of northern flying squirrels and red squirrels. Forest Ecology and Management 202: 255-367.
Ransome , D.B., and T.P. Sullivan. 2003. Population dynamics of Glaucomys sabrinus and Tamiasciurus douglasii in old-growth and second-growth stands of coastal coniferous forest. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 33:587-596.
Ransome , D.B., and T.P. Sullivan. 2003. Effects of food and den-site supplementation on populations of northern flying squirrels ( Glaucomys sabrinus ) and Douglas squirrels ( Tamiasciurus douglasii ). Journal of Mammalogy 85: 206-215.
Ransome , D.B., and T.P. Sullivan. 2002. Short-term population dynamics of Glaucomys sabrinus and Tamiasciurus douglasii in commercially-thinned and unthinned stands of coastal coniferous forest. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 32: 2043-2050.
Sullivan, T.P., S.D. Sullivan, D.B. Ransome , and P.M.F. Lindgren. 2003. Impact of removal trapping on abundance and diversity attributes in small mammal communities. Wildlife Society Bulletins 31: 464-474.
Ransome , D.B. and T.P. Sullivan. 1997. Food limitation and habitat preference of Glaucomys sabrinus and Tamiasciurus hudsonicus . Journal of Mammalogy 78(2): 538-549.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2009. Variable retention and life after the beetle: Stand structure and small mammals 30 years after salvage harvesting. Silva Fennica 44(5): 749–774
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2009. Long-term responses of mammalian herbivores to stand thinning and fertilization in young lodgepole pine forest. Can. J. For. Res. 40: 2302–2312.
### Faculty
Ana Chará-Serna, PhD
- PhD in Freshwater Ecology, Faculty of Forestry, University of British Columbia
- MSc in Aquatic Sciences, School of Natural Resources and Environment, University of Michigan, USA
- BSc (Hns) in Biology, Emphasis in Ecology, Universidad del Valle, Colombia
Work Experience
Dr. Ana Chará-Serna is an Instructor for the Ecological Restoration BSc and MSc programs at BCIT. Ana is an Aquatic Biologist with over 15 years of experience across academia, industry, and the non-profit sector in Colombia and Canada. As an academic researcher, Ana spent more than 7 years investigating how human activities impact biota and functioning of freshwater ecosystems. In the non-profit sector, Ana participated in the assessment of riparian forest restoration projects on stream ecosystems of Colombia. As an environmental consultant, she gained practical experience in the real-world challenge of applying environmental science on monitoring and conservation of aquatic ecosystems in BC.
Most of Ana’s research has focused on the effects of agriculture on freshwater biodiversity, particularly benthic invertebrates, and ecosystem functioning. Her studies have addressed the ecological role of riparian forest buffers in mountainous agricultural landscapes, the effects of local agricultural practices on tropical Andean streams, the interactive effects of multiple agricultural stressors on experimental freshwater ecosystems, and the dynamics of zooplankton communities in the Illinois River. At BCIT, Ana has supervised MSc and BSc applied research projects in topics including restoration of freshwater wetlands, stream habitat restoration for amphibian species, effects of road salt inputs in benthic invertebrate communities of the Lower Mainland, quantification of blue carbon in subtidal eelgrass, and monitoring of nature-based wave attenuation infrastructure in coastal environments.
Courses thought
- Field Applications of Restoration Principles (ECOR 9200: MSc in Ecological Restoration). This is a 2-week course providing hands-on training in field techniques used for environmental monitoring and habitat restoration.
- Terrain and Stream Channel Assessment for Ecological Restoration (RENR 8201: BSc in Ecological Restoration). This course provides an outline of the physical processes that control how watersheds function and may influence restoration planning and effectiveness. It introduces a selection of general geoscience principals, the identification of landforms and geomorphic processes, the interpretation of terrain maps, and stream channel morphology classification.
- Applied Research Projects (BSc in Ecological Restoration 2021-2024). Students in the BSc conduct a one-year Applied Research capstone project focused on developing an ecological restoration plan in groups. Supervised projects include: Restoration of Elk Mountain Coastal Giant Salamander habitat. Authors: Lindsay Curle, Jolene Milan, Maya Meron. Amphibian habitat enhancement at Maplewood Flats conservation area. Authors: Jasmine Carlin, Jackson MacPherson, Gabby Thompson, Kaylen Kerr. Restoring habitat for amphibians in Queen Elizabeth Park. Authors: Christina Steele, Mohammad Ali Saeedbakht, Leon Do.
- Applied Research Projects (MSc in Ecological Restoration 2023-2024). Students in the 2015-2024 MSc program had to conduct a 6-credit Applied Research Project (Capstone Project). They developed a restoration plan or conducted applied research to address a scientific question related to ecological restoration. Supervised projects include: Blue carbon dynamics in temperate subtidal eelgrass. Author: April Lin. Field Trials on a Living Dike in British Columbia: Wave attenuation of edge treatment features. Author: Braydon Foster. Melting away habitat: Exploring Road Salt Impact on Stream life. Author: Jonathan Gosling.
Selected publications
Boyero L., Pérez J., López-Rojo N., Tonin A.M., Correa-Araneda F., Chará-Serna A.M. , Et al (2021) Impacts of detritivore diversity loss on instream decomposition are greatest in the tropics. Nature Communications, 12: 3700.
Chara-Serna A.M. , Richardson, J.S. (2021) Multiple-Stressor Interactions in Tributaries Alter Downstream Ecosystems in Stream Mesocosm Networks. Water 13(9): 1194
Boyero L., Perez J., Lopez-Rojo N., Tonin A.M., Correa-Araneda F., Chará-Serna A.M. , Et al (2021) Latitude dictates plant diversity effects on instream decomposition. Science Advances, 7: eabe7860.
Chará-Serna AM , Casper, A. 2020. How do large river zooplankton communities respond to abiotic and biotic drivers over time? A complex and spatially dependent example. Freshwater Biology, 66(2): 391-405.
Chará-Serna AM , Epele LB, Morrissey CA, Richardson JS. 2019. Nutrients and sediment modify the impacts of a neonicotinoid insecticide on freshwater community structure and ecosystem functioning. Science of the Total Environment, 692: 1291–1303.
Chará-Serna AM , Richardson JS. 2018. Chlorpyrifos interacts with other agricultural stressors to alter stream communities in laboratory microcosms. Ecological Applications, 28(1): 162-176.
Chará-Serna AM , Chará J, Giraldo LP, Zúñiga MC, Allan JD. 2015. Understanding the impacts of agriculture on Andean stream ecosystems of Colombia: a causal analysis using aquatic macroinvertebrates as indicators of biological integrity. Freshwater Science, 34(2): 727-740.
Boyero L, Pearson RG, Swan CM, Hui C, Albariño RJ, Arunachalam M, Callisto M, Chará J, Chará Serna AM , Chauvet E, Cornejo A, Dudgeon D, et al. 2015. Latitudinal gradient of nestedness and its potential drivers in stream detritivores. Ecography, 38: 949-955
Chará-Serna AM , Chará J, Zúñiga MC, Pearson RG. Boyero L. 2012. Diets of leaf litter-associated invertebrates in three tropical streams. Annales de Limnologie – International Journal of Limnology, 48: 139-144.
Boyero L, Pearson RG, Dudgeon D, Ferreira V, Graça MAS, Gessner MO, Boulton AJ, Chauvet E, Yule CM, Albariño RJ, Ramírez A, Helson JE, Callisto M, Arunachalam M, Chará J, Figueroa R, Mathooko JM, Gonçalves JF JR, Moretti MS, Chará-Serna AM , et al. 2012. Global patterns of stream detritivore distribution: implications for biodiversity loss in changing climates. Global Ecology and Biogeography, 21: 134-141.
Giraldo LP, Chará J, Zúñiga MC, Chará-Serna AM , Pedraza GX. 2014. Agricultural land use impacts on aquatic macroinvertebrates in small streams from La Vieja River (Valle del Cauca, Colombia). International Journal of Tropical Biology and Conservation, 62(2):203-219.
Boyero L, Pearson RG, Dudgeon D, Graça MAS, Gessner MO, Albariño RJ, Ferreira V, Yule CM, Boulton AJ, Arunachalam M, Callisto M, Chauvet E, Ramírez A, Chará J, Moretti MS, Gonçalves JF JR, Helson JE, Chará-Serna AM , Encalada AC, et al. 2011. Global distribution of a key trophic guild contrasts with common latitudinal diversity patterns. Ecology, 92 (9): 1839-1848.
Anayansi Cohen-Fernández, PhD, RPBio
Education
- PhD in Land Reclamation and Remediation, University of Alberta
- MSc in Management and Conservation of Natural Tropical Renewable Resources, University of Yucatan, Mexico
- BSc in Biology, Autonomous Metropolitan University, Mexico
- University Teaching Program, University of Alberta
Work experience
Dr. Anayansi Cohen-Fernandez has over 20 years of experience in environmental consulting and resource management in Mexico and Canada. Her experience revolves around the effects of development on landscape ecology and biodiversity. She has extensive experience in research and implementation of restoration and reclamation projects following mining, oil and gas, urban and agricultural disturbances.
While doing her M.Sc. in the tropical forests of Southern Mexico, Anayansi developed a model for sustainable use of natural populations of the multipurpose tree, Bursera simaruba . She later completed her Ph.D. in Land Reclamation and Remediation at the University of Alberta, where she researched reclamation of limestone quarries, re-establishing ecosystem processes and native plant communities and building soils. In her postdoctoral research she evaluated the effects of fine-scale environmental heterogeneity of constructed microsites on native plant species in the Prairie and Parkland Ecoregions of Alberta. At BCIT, Anayansi has taught several courses in the M.Sc. in Ecological Restoration and was the Program Head from 2019-2023. She helps students develop their applied research projects, which have included the evaluation of prairie tallgrass restoration success, plant facilitation effects in a riparian ecosystem, enhancement of soil biocrust establishment to assist reclamation of mine tailings, and the potential of biochar to improve the functionality of rain gardens, among others.
Professional designation
- RPBio, British Columbia
Courses thought
- Applied Research Project (ECOR 9300, 9400: M.Sc. in Ecological Restoration, 2018-2024). These courses provided the academic framework for students to develop an applied research capstone project (the ARP). The content and activities of the courses were structured to support the development of the ARP, and to deepen student’s knowledge, understanding and skills to investigate and resolve problems relevant to ecological restoration at the Master of Science level.
- Restoration of Terrestrial Ecosystems (M.Sc. (ECOR 9210, 2018-2024), B.Sc. (RENR 8101, 2018-2022). This course presented the best examples of state-of-the-art terrestrial ecosystem restoration techniques, with emphasis on the Pacific northwest, from bunch grasslands to old-growth forests. Students designed a restoration plan for a specific degraded terrestrial ecosystem.
- Wetland and Estuary Restoration (ECOR9301, 2023). This course covered the fundamentals of wetland and estuary form, function, classification and restoration in Canada and internationally. Students participate in a multi-day field trip to design a wetland, construct a groundwater wetland, or monitor the performance of a recently constructed wetland.
- Planning and Monitoring for Ecological Restoration (ECOR 9110, 2022). Co-instructor. This course developed broad knowledge and skills needed to plan and implement restoration activities. Students reviewied step-by-step processes applicable to a wide range of ecosystems for developing, implementing, monitoring, and refining on-the-ground restoration projects.
- Field Applications of Restoration Principles (ECOR 9200, 2018-2020). This was a 2-week course providing hands-on training in field techniques used for environmental monitoring and habitat restoration.
- Concepts of Ecological Restoration and the Biological Environment (ECO 611, SFU, M.Sc., 2017). This course was a review of general ecology, including theories relevant to the individual, the population, and the community, and their interaction and their relationship with the abiotic environment.
- Applied Research Projects (M.Sc. 2018- 2024). Students in the 2015-2024 M.Sc. program had to conduct a 6-credit Applied Research Project (Capstone Project). They developed restoration plans or implemented an experimental design, to identify and remove stressors as the foundation for restoration. This involved a summer of fieldwork, with data analyses and ending with their MSc defence of their research. Here are some of the applied research projects supervised: The dynamics of wetland water loss in Churn Creek Protected Area: British Columbia’s semi-arid grassland hydrology. Author: Sarah Kruk Assessing the Effects of Manual Tree Removal as a Grassland Restoration Treatment in the Churn Creek Protected Area. Author: Kathleen Philp An ecological restoration plan for Hancock Nature Farm in Surrey, BC: adapting agroforestry systems to increase climate change resilience. Author: Daniel-Alexander Cretu Black Locust Distribution and Management Recommendations for the Lower Columbia River Valley near Trail, BC. Author: Hugh Wileman (Wylie) Fuller Investigating bee presence and vegetation characteristics in naturalized stormwater systems in Winnipeg, Manitoba. Author: Mackenzie Glover Biocrust Propagation and Transplantation on Mine Tailings and Overburden Substrates for Mine Reclamation. Author: Pradeep Poudel Evaluation of Elymus repens (quackgrass) Control Methods for Reclamation on an Oil Sands Mine Site in Northern Alberta. Author: Sloane Jarvis Carbon Sequestration and Storage Potential along the Trans-Canada Highway Corridor in Chilliwack, BC. Author: Kathleen Cathcart Native Plant Response to Biochar Application Rates in an Engineered Bioretention Soil. Author: Alyssa Johnston Predictive Vegetation Model as a Restoration Tool for Frenchies Island in the Fraser River delta. Author: Kyla Sheehan Biological Soil Crusts for Reclamation of Mine Tailings. Author: Shantanu Dutt Assessing the Potential Impact of English ivy (Hedera helix) on the arthropod community of Stanley Park. Author: Abby Wu Testing Primed White Rot Fungi for Bioremediation of Petroleum Hydrocarbon Contaminated Soil. & Bioremediation Options Plan for Napo Concession Area in Ecuador. Author: Nadine Hines Plant Facilitation Effects as a Potential Restoration Tool in Riparian Ecosystems in Southwestern British Columbia. Author: Keith MacCallum Identifying Temporal Trends and Mechanisms for Successful Reforestation on Former Agricultural Land. A Case Study in Norfolk County, Ontario Present. Author: Luke Ridgeway
Selected publications
Naeth, M.A. , A. Cohen-Fernández , F.P.O. Mollard, L. Yao, S.R. Wilkinson and Z. Jiao. 2018. Enriched topographic microsites for improved native grass and forb establishment in reclamation. Rangeland Ecology and Management 71:12-18.
Mollard, F.P.O., M.A. Naeth, and A. Cohen-Fernández . 2014. Impacts of mulch on prairie seedling establishment: Facilitative to inhibitory effects. Ecological Engineering 64:377-384.
Cohen-Fernández, A. , M.A. Naeth and S.R. Wilkinson. 2013. Anthroposol development from limestone quarry substrates. Canadian Journal of Soil Science. 93:1-12.
Cohen-Fernández. A. and M.A. Naeth. 2013. Erosion control blankets, organic amendments and site variability influenced the initial plant community at a limestone quarry in the Canadian Rocky Mountains. Biogeosciences 10: 5243-5253.
Cohen-Fernández. A. and M.A. Naeth. 2013. Increasing woody species diversity for sustainable limestone quarry reclamation in Canada. Sustainability 5:1340-1355.
Gálvez, D. and A. Cohen-Fernández . 2006. Partial compensation in Psychotria marginata (Rubiaceae) after simulated defoliation increases photon capture and photosynthesis. Photosynthetica 44: 46-52.
Colleen Chan, PhD, PEng.
Email: Colleen_Chan@bcit.ca
Education
- Ph.D. in Civil Engineering (Pollution Control and Waste Management), University of British Columbia
- M.Sc. in Chemical Engineering, University of Alberta
- B.Sc. in Chemical Engineering, University of Alberta
Work experience
Dr. Chan is an instructor in the Department of Civil Engineering at BCIT. She has over 15 years of experience in the field of water quality and environmental engineering, and is passionate about using nature-based solutions to maintain sustainable urban ecosystems. Her research aims to address urban stormwater issues and mitigate the negative impacts of urban development and climate change on ecosystems.
Dr. Chan collaborates with researchers and students from various disciplines to examine the interaction of water and ecology in urban environments, with a primary focus on restoring natural hydrological balance and improving water quality in urban streams. Her research includes areas such as the implementation of green infrastructure systems (e.g., bioretention cells, swales, green roofs, and blue-green roofs) to mitigate stormwater runoff, assessing the adaptability of these systems to the impacts of climate change, and investigating chemical pollutant loading in urban streams due to stormwater. Additionally, Dr. Chan evaluates the effectiveness of green infrastructure in removing chemical pollutants and enhancing stormwater quality prior to discharge to streams. Her work also explores novel soil and filtration media amendment solutions, such as biochar, to improve chemical pollutant removal.
Graduate Research Projects (MSc)
- Ecohydrological Performance of a Building-Integrated Nature-Based Solution in Vancouver (In progress) [Building Science Graduate Program, BCIT]
- Application of Biochar-Amended Bioretention Systems to Improve Stormwater Quality, 2021 [Ecological Restoration Graduate Program, BCIT/SFU]
- Restoration of an Urban Creek Water Quality Using Sand and Biochar Filtration Galleries, 2018 [Ecological Restoration Graduate Program, BCIT/SFU]
- Modeling the Hydrological Response of Blue-Green Roofs, 2022
- [Building Science Graduate Program, BCIT] (Examining committee member)
- Sound Living in Laneway Housing and Acoustical Study on Laneway Housing in Vancouver, 2013 [Building Science Graduate Program, BCIT] (Examining committee member)
Undergraduate Research Projects: Dept. Civil Engineering, BCIT
- Data Collection and Analysis of Bioretention Cell/Green Infrastructure Sediment Pad Performance in the City of Vancouver (2024)
- Monitoring and Mitigation of Arsenic Contamination in Punjab, India (2023)
- Blue-Green Roofs – Implementation and Integration (2023)
- Investigating Soil and Aggregate Porosity of Bioretention Cells (Rain Gardens) in the City of Vancouver (2022)
- Modelling the Hydrologic Response of Blue-Green Roofs in Vancouver, BC. (2021)
- Nitrogen and Phosphorous Removal from Agricultural Runoff Using Biochar (2020)
- Investigation of the Effects of Soil/Biochar Water Saturation Conditions in a Rain Garden on Stormwater Quality Improvement (2020)
- An Analysis of the Variability in the Removal of Turbidity & E. coli in Biosand Filters (2019)
- The Design of an Infiltration Swale Pilot Study Using Biochar as a Filter Medium (2019)
- Various Factors Affecting Biochar’s Removal of Chemical Contaminants from Drinking Water (2016)
- A Model of Pesticide Removal in Drinking Water using Biochar (2015)
- Effect of Prolonged Inactivity of Biosand Filter on Water Quality – Nitrogen and Phosphorus Contents (2015)
Dept. Chemical and Environmental Technology
- Use of Biochar in Stormwater Remediation (2020)
- Equilibrium Adsorption of Biochar in Contaminated Solutions (2020)
- Proposal to Design and Test the Effectiveness of a Biochar Water Filter in Removing Fluoride from Drinking Water (2018)
- Effectiveness of Biochar Produced at BCIT in Filtering Stormwater Runoff Contaminants (2018)
- Investigation of the Sorption Properties of Biochar for the Removal of Pesticides and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons from Water (2016)
- Analytical Methods of using High Pressure Liquid Chromatography-Fluorescence (HPLC-fluorescence) and Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectroscopy/Mass Spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS) for Analyzing Atrazine and Phenanthrene in Biosand Filtered Water (2014)
Selected publications
Win, N., Mora, R., Chan, C.C.V. (2024) Experimental Studies on Building-Integrated Nature-based Solutions for the Marine Climate of British Columbia. (Paper Presentation) 4th International Conference on New Horizons in Green Civil Engineering, Victoria, Canada. Chan, C.C.V., Fuda, S., Tubeo, J., Mora, R. (2024). Drainage Discharge Design for Improved Hydrologic Performance of a Blue-Green Roof. (Manuscript submitted for publication in Journal of Water Management Modeling). Jalizi, S., Ashley, K., Chan, C.C.V. (2020). Restoration of an Urban Creek Water Quality Using Sand and Biochar Filtration Galleries. In Moore, J., Attia, S., Abdel-Kader, A., & Narasimhan, A. (Ed.) Ecocities Now: Building the Bridge to Socially Just and Ecologically Sustainable Cities (Pages 161-173). Springer. Chan, C. C. V., Lari, K., & Soulsbury, K. (2020). An Intermittently Operated Biochar Filter to Remove Chemical Contaminants from Drinking Water. International Journal of Environmental Science and Technology, 1-12. Chan, C.C.V., Neufeld, K., Cusworth, D., Gavrilovic, S., Ngai, T. (2015) Investigation of the Effect of Grain Size, Flow Rate and. Diffuser Design on the CAWST Biosand Filter Performance, International Journal for Service Learning in Engineering, 10(1), 1-23. Ratkovich, N., Chan, C.C.V., Bentzen, T.R. and Rasmussen, M.R. (2012) Experimental and CFD Simulation Studies of Wall Shear Stress for Different Impeller Configurations and MBR Activated Sludge, Water Science and Technology, 65(11), 2061-70. Chan, C.C.V., Bérubé P.R. and Hall E.R. (2011) Relationship Between Types of Surface Shear Stress Profiles and Membrane Fouling, Water Research, 45(19), 6403–6416. Ratkovich, N., Chan, C.C.V., Berube, P.R. and Nopens, I. (2011) Analysis of Shear Stress and Energy Consumption in a Tubular Airlift Membrane System, Water Science and Technology, 64(1), 189-198. Ratkovich N., Chan C.C.V., Bérubé P.R. and Nopens I. (2010) Investigation of the Effect of Viscosity on Sludge Flow in Airlift Tubular Membranes in Search for a Slug Surrogate, Water Science and Technology, 61(7), 1801-1809. Ratkovich, N., Chan, C.C.V., Berube, P.R. and Nopens, I. (2009) Experimental Study and CFD Modeling of a Two-phase Slug Flow for an Airlift Tubular Membrane, Chemical Engineering Science, 64(16): 3576-3584.
Chan, C.C.V., Bérubé P.R. and Hall, E.R. (2007) Shear Profiles Inside Gas Sparged Submerged Hollow Fiber Membrane Modules, Journal of Membrane Science, 297(1-2), 104-120.
Dave Harper
Eric M. Anderson, PhD
Education
- Post-doctoral research at: Simon Fraser University (Centre for Wildlife Ecology), Environment and Climate Change Canada (Pacific Wildlife Research Centre), and University of British Columbia
- MSc and PhD in Zoology and Physiology, University of Wyoming
- Graduate Program in Environmental Education, Teton Science School/Utah State University
- BSc in Mathematics, University of Puget Sound
Work experience
Dr. Eric M. Anderson is Program Head of the Ecological Restoration BSc Program at the British Columbia Institute of Technology. He and his BCIT students have conducted applied ecological research with a range of partners, such as Metro Vancouver, Ducks Unlimited Canada, City of Vancouver, Delta Farmland & Wildlife Trust, and Squamish River Watershed Society. Eric is also a Research Fellow of the Pacific WildLife Foundation, a Science Advisor for SeaDoc Society (UC Davis), a Research Scientist at Friday Harbor Labs (U. of Washington), and an Adjunct Professor at Simon Fraser University (SFU). He completed his MSc and PhD in Zoology and Physiology at the U. of Wyoming, and conducted postdoctoral research at SFU (Centre for Wildlife Ecology), Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) Pacific Wildlife Research Centre, and the University of British Columbia (UBC).
Eric’s research focuses especially on the ecology and conservation of nearshore ecosystems along the Pacific Coast. Some recent research projects include:
- Causes of mortality in a Harbor Seal population at carrying capacity (with SeaDoc Society, The Whale Museum, Washington Dept. of Fish and Wildlife, Animal Health Center)
- Effects of proposed off-shore wind power development in Haida Gwaii on marine birds (with SFU, ECCC)
- Functional dependencies of sea ducks on seagrass beds and herring spawn (with SFU, ECCC)
- Effects of trace elements on sea duck nutritional status (with Southern Illinois University, with SFU, ECCC)
Selected publications
(*Denotes undergraduate or MSc student authors):
Brooks, M.L., J.R. Lovvorn, *J. Hallman Behnke, E.M. Anderson . 2021. Detecting silent stressors: trace element effects on nutritional status of declining scoter ducks of Puget Sound, USA. Science of the Total Environment. In press .
*Dickson, R.D., D. Esler, J. Hupp, E.M. Anderson , J.R. Evenson, and J. Barrett. 2021. Dynamics of body mass and foraging effort of Surf Scoters ( Melanitta perspicillata ) and White-winged Scoters ( M. fusca ) during remigial moult. Ibis. In review .
Anderson, E.M. , *R.D. Dickson, *E.K. Lok, *E.C. Palm, J.-P.L. Savard, D. Bordage, and A. Reed. 2020. Surf Scoter ( Melanitta perspicillata ), The Birds of the World Online (P.G.Rodewald, Ed.). Ithaca: Cornell Lab of Ornithology.
*Ashley, E.A., J.K. Olson, *T.E. Adler, S. Raverty, E.M. Anderson , S. Jeffries, and J.K. Gaydos. 2020. Causes of mortality in a Harbor Seal ( Phoca vitulina ) population at equilibrium. Frontiers in Marine Science 7:Article 319. doi: 10.3389/fmars.2020.00319
*Whyte, L. M., *J. Sibbald, *A. Kujawiak, *L. Schlectleitner, D., Bondar, M. Taitt, C. Terpsma, and E.M. Anderson . 2020. Effectives of hedgerows on landbird diversity and abundance in agricultural fields. In preparation .
*Law, A.A., *M.E. Threlfall, *B.A. Tijman, E.M. Anderson , S. McCann, G. Searing, and D. Bradbeer. 2017. Diet and prey selection of Barn Swallows ( Hirundo rustica ) at Vancouver International Airport. Canadian Field-Naturalist 131:26–31.
Lewis, T.L., D. Esler, B.D. Uher-Koch, R.D. Dickson, E.M. Anderson , J.R. Evenson, J.W. Hupp, and P.L. Flint. 2017. Attaching transmitters to waterbirds using one versus two subcutaneous anchors: Retention and survival trade-offs. Wildlife Society Bulletin 41:691–700.
Anderson, E.M. , R.D. Dickson, E.K. Lok, E.C. Palm, J.-P.L. Savard, D. Bordage, and A. Reed. 2015. Surf Scoter ( Melanitta perspicillata ), The Birds of North America Online (A. Poole, Ed.). Ithaca: Cornell Lab of Ornithology.
Lovvorn, J.R., E.M. Anderson , *A.R. Rocha, W.W. Larned, J.M. Grebmeier, L.W. Cooper, J.M. Kolts, and C.A. North. 2014. Variable wind, pack ice, and prey dispersion affect the long-term adequacy of protected areas for an Arctic sea duck. Ecological Applications 24:396–412.
*Uher-Koch. B.D., D. Esler, *R.D. Dickson, J.W. Hupp, J.R. Evenson, E.M. Anderson , J. Barrett, J.A. Schmutz. 2014. Survival of Surf Scoters and White-winged Scoters during remigial molt. Journal of Wildlife Management 78:1189–1196.
*Dickson, R.D., E.M. Anderson , and D. Esler. 2014. Status report on the Western Grebe ( Aechmophorus occidentalis ). Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada.
Wilson, S.D., E.M. Anderson , A. Wilson, P. Arcese, and D.F. Bertram. 2013. Citizen science reveals an extensive shift in the winter distribution of migratory Western Grebes. PLOS ONE 8:e65408.
Palm, E.C.,D. Esler, E.M. Anderson , M.T. Wilson, T.W. Williams, and O. Love. 2013. Baseline corticosterone in wintering marine birds: methodological considerations and ecological patterns. Physiological and Biochemical Zoology 86:346–353.
Palm, E.C.,D. Esler, E.M. Anderson , T.D. Williams, and M.T. Wilson. 2013. Variation in physiology and energy management of wintering White-winged Scoters in relation to local habitat conditions. Condor 115:750–761.
Anderson, E.M. , and J.R. Lovvorn. 2012. Seasonal size dynamics of prey mediate complementary functions of mussel and seagrass habitats for an avian predator. Marine Ecology Progress Series 467:219–232.
*Palm, E.C., D. Esler, E.M. Anderson , and M.T. Wilson. 2012. Geographic and temporal variation in diet of wintering White-winged Scoters. Waterbirds 35:577–589.
*Dickson, R.D., D. Esler, J. Hupp, E.M. Anderson , J.R. Evenson, and J. Barrett. 2012. Phenology and duration of remigial moult in Surf Scoters ( Melanitta perspicillata ) and White-winged Scoters ( M. fusca ) on the Pacific coast of North America. Canadian Journal of Zoology 90:932–944.
Anderson, E.M. , D. Esler, W.S. Boyd, J.R. Evenson, D.R. Nysewander, D.H. Ward, *R.D. Dickson, *B.D. Uher-Koch, *C.S. VanStratt, and J.W. Hupp. 2012. A preliminary assessment of the predator seascape for scoters: predation rates, timing, and predator composition. Canadian Journal of Zoology 90:42–50.
Anderson, E.M. , and J.R. Lovvorn. 2011. Contrasts in energy status and marine foraging strategies of White-winged Scoters ( Melanitta fusca ) and Surf Scoters ( M. perspicillata ). Auk 128:248−257.
Anderson, E.M. , J.R. Lovvorn, D. Esler, W.S. Boyd, and K.C. Stick. 2009. Using predator distributions, diet, and condition to evaluate seasonal foraging sites: sea ducks and herring spawn. Marine Ecology Progress Series 386: 287–302.
Anderson, E.M. , J.L. Bower, D.R. Nysewander, J.R. Evenson, and J.R. Lovvorn. 2009. Changes in avifaunal abundance in a heavily used wintering and migration site in Puget Sound, Washington, during 1966–2007. Marine Ornithology 37:19–27.
Anderson, E.M. , and J.R. Lovvorn. 2008. Gray whales may increase feeding opportunities for avian benthivores. Marine Ecology Progress Series 360:291–296.
Anderson, E.M. , J.R. Lovvorn, and M.T. Wilson. 2008. Reevaluating marine diets of Surf and White-winged scoters: interspecific differences and the importance of soft-bodied prey. Condor 110:285–295.
Anderson, E.M. 2007. Changes in bird communities and willow habitats associated with fed elk. Wilson Journal of Ornithology 119:400–409.
Millie Kuyer, BSc, RPBio
Education
- MSc candidate, Environment and Management, Royal Roads University ( in progress )
- BSc, Ecological Restoration, BCIT, 2017
- Tech. Fish, Wildlife and Recreation, BCIT, 2015
- Professional Photo Imaging, Langara College, 2009
Professional designation
- RPBio, British Columbia
Work experience
Millie Kuyer has been working in the natural resource management field since 2005 and has since worked with industry, non-profit, First Nations, federal government, and environmental consultants with a focus on terrestrial ecology. She has a tech. dipl. in Fish, Wildlife and Recreation and a BSc in Ecological Restoration from BCIT and is pursuing her MSc in Environment and Management from Royal Roads University. She has worked as a biologist within Canada’s rocky mountain National Parks including restoration planning and monitoring for AltaLink’s 551L Transmission Line Rebuild, rare plant surveys for Lake Louise Ski Resort, environmental monitoring for the Sulphur Mountain Gondola, and riparian vegetation monitoring for the Cascade Creek restoration project. Millie also worked on Parks Canada’s whitebark pine restoration project by assisting in pine cone caging, seed collection, and tree planting in high elevation forests. Millie is currently an Assistant Instructor, provides support to all levels of programming, and supervises applied research projects for the Ecological Restoration BSc program.
Jamie Slogan BSc, BTech, MSc, PhD, RPBio
Contact Information Faculty, Ecological Restoration (MSc) T: 604-412-7613 | Email: james_slogan@bcit.ca
Education
- Doctor of Philosophy–Zoology. Fisheries Research Centre. University of British Columbia
- Bachelor of Technology-Environmental Engineering. British Columbia Institute of Technology
- Master of Science-Botany. University of Manitoba
- Bachelor of Science-Joint Zoology and Botany in Ecology. University of Manitoba
- Mini- Master of Business Administration. Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia
- Commercial SCUBA Diver 40m – DiveSafe International, Campbell River, BC
Work experience
Dr. Slogan is a Registered Professional Biologist with extensive experience and training as a senior marine, fisheries, and vegetation ecologist and over 20 years of experience including 18 years as an environmental consultant in British Columbia and five years working for government and conservation organizations globally. Jamie recently led marine spatial planning for IUCN in the South Pacific working with countries to plan networks of marine protected areas to support the global Convention on Biological Diversity Target 3 – to conserve 30% of land, waters, and seas by 2030. Prior to that he was the Department Head of Biological Services and Senior Biologist for a medium sized environmental consulting company leading numerous large environmental impact assessments and complex ecological restoration projects throughout coastal BC. In addition to his time as a consultant, Dr. Slogan created and instructed courses in Ecological Restoration and supervised graduate students at Simon Fraser University and British Columbia Institute of Technology.
Course taught
- Project Management and Policy in Ecological Restoration (SFU ECO 622)
- Restoration of Terrestrial Ecosystems (BCIT ECOR 9210)
Guest Lectures
- Slogan. J. 2024. Overview of Marine Spatial Planning with Case Studies from the South Pacific. University of Wollongong Australia and Solomon Islands National University.
- Slogan, J., 2015, Using Ecopath with Ecosim and Ecospace for Environmental Impact Assessment. FISH 501-Ecosystem Modeling, University of British Columbia.
- Slogan, J. 2011. PerMANOVA – Multivariate Statistical Techniques for Biologists. Botany 528-Advanced Community Analysis, University of British Columbia,
- Slogan, J. 2009. How to Conduct Rare Plant Surveys. Fish and Wildlife Program, British Columbia Institute of Technology.
Graduate Student Supervision
- Davis, K. 2017. Hellshire Beach Seagrass Restoration Plan. Thesis for partial fulfillment of degree of Master of Science. SFU and BCIT.
- Robert, T. 2017. Morris Creek Restoration Plan. SFU and BCIT. Thesis for partial fulfillment of degree of Master of Science. SFU and BCIT.
Awards
- Bill Donald Award for Leadership in Business – Keystone Environmental Ltd. 2022. Environmental Managers Association (EMA) Award for best environmental assessment for the innovative design and success of repurposing concrete rail-ties into artificial reefs that support kelp and rockfish.
- Brink/ McLean Grassland Conservation Fund Award. 2016 and 2018.
- MITACS Accelerate Award. BCIT with Hemmera. Industry Supervisor. Harrison River Watershed Salmon Habitat Restoration Assessment. 2017.
- Association of Professional Biologists of British Columbia Scholarship. 2011.
- National Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) – Industrial Postgraduate Scholarship II. 2009-2012.
- Faculty of Science Entrance and Graduate Awards, UBC. 2008-2012.
- Al MacDonald Life-long Learning Award- EBA Engineering Consultants Ltd. 2008-2012.
- Award for Outstanding Contribution to Safety- EBA Engineering Consultants Ltd. 2007.
- 1st place 2003 Grand Cayman Amateur Photography Competition (Underwater Division).
Selected publications
- Slogan, J. R. 2015. Evaluation of design, environmental, and sustainability attributes affecting urban fisheries restoration habitat in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Ph.D. Thesis. Vancouver, BC. 223 p.
- Slogan, J. 2006. A Review of ecological risk assessment of amphibians in British Columbia. Bachelor’s Thesis, British Columbia Institute of Technology Burnaby, BC. 69 p.
- Slogan, J . 1997. Long-term vegetation dynamics of plains rough fescue ( Festuca hallii ) grassland in Riding Mountain National Park, Manitoba. Master’s Thesis, University of Manitoba. Winnipeg, MB. 177 p.
- Christensen, V., Poulsen, F., and J. Slogan. Using ecosystem modelling to determine productivity for habitat offsetting. (In preparation for submission to Ecosystem Modelling).
- Slogan, J. and T.J. Pitcher. RESTORE: A rapid assessment tool for evaluating ecological, social, and economic aspects of restoration habitat (In preparation for submission to Ocean and Coastal Management).
- Slogan, J . and T.J. Pitcher. Effectiveness of an ecologically engineered shoreline as habitat and the impact of local environmental variables (In preparation for submission to Journal of Coastal Research).
- Slogan, J . and T.J. Pitcher. Intertidal species diversity and assembly vary with engineered microhabitat design and tidal height (In preparation for submission to Ecological Engineering).
Cassie Stam (Friesen) BSc, MSc,BIT
Contact Information Faculty, Ecological Restoration (MSc) T:778-503-2447 | Email: cassie_friesen@bcit.ca
Education
- MSc, Ecological Restoration, Simon Fraser University, BCIT
- BSc, Biology Honours, concentration in Ecology, University of the Fraser Valley
Work experience
Cassie Stam (Friesen) is an Instructor in the BSc Ecological Restoration program, with a strong background in biology and a passion for applied ecological science. She is an Ecologist with over six years of field experience in applied biology, including five years specializing in wetland ecosystems. Before completing her master’s degree, Cassie worked in horticultural consulting, focusing on integrated pest management and pesticide research trials. Her graduate research at Simon Fraser University and BCIT explored the predation of Western Painted Turtles (Chrysemys picta bellii) at nesting beaches across BC’s Sunshine Coast, in partnership with the Sunshine Coast Wildlife Project. Following her studies, she worked with the BC Wildlife Federation, where she led wetland restoration, monitoring, maintenance and assessment work across British Columbia. Her expertise includes wetland restoration, wetland delineation, the Wetland Ecosystem Services Protocol (WESP), and contributions to the Canadian National Wetland Inventory. She has authored wetland restoration plans with a strong emphasis on long-term site monitoring and maintenance. Cassie has led and trained field staff in wetland assessments including WESP and CNWI across the south coast and southern interior of BC. At BCIT, Cassie teaches several courses in the BSc program and supervises applied research projects. She also supports both the BSc and MSc Ecological Restoration programs as a part-time Assistant Instructor. Her research interests include wetland ecosystems, plant ecology, soil science and herpetology, with a focus on their application in ecological restoration. Cassie currently holds a Biologist in Training (BIT) designation with the College of Applied Biology in British Columbia and is working toward her Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) status.
### Staff
Anita Lai Program Assistant Tel: 604-432-8465 Email: anita_lai@bcit.ca
### Advisory committee
- Chloe Hartley, Referrals Analyst, Tsleil-Waututh Nation
- Eric Balke, Coordinator-South Coast Conservation Land Management Program, Ducks Unlimited Canada
- Ken Hall, Professor Emeritus, UBC
- Marlow Pellatt, Ecological Restoration Specialist, Parks Canada
- Natalie Tashe, Project Management Reclamation Planning, Stantec
- Pontus Lindgren, Environmental Manager, Westpark Electric
## Thesis Students
### 2025-2027 Cohort
Emily Miller
Emily Miller is an MSc candidate in the Ecological Restoration program at BCIT under the supervision of Dr. Anayansi Cohen-Fernandez. She received her B.S. in Environmental Science from Moravian University, where she studied the impact of environmental enrichment on the larval development of African-Clawed Frogs. Her current work focuses on identifying key habitat characteristics that support the establishment of the mountain holly fern (Polystichum scopulinum), and supporting the establishment of a red-listed grassland ecosystem following disturbance from mining operations. She is eager to expand her skill set and deepen her experience with ecological restoration.
Sabine Rankin
Working with Dr. Douglas Ransome and the BC Wildlife Federation (BCWF), Sabine will be analyzing hydrological data and satellite imagery from 12 low-tech process-based restoration (LTPBR) projects constructed by BCWF to assess their effectiveness at storing more water on the landscape for longer. LTPBR involves building beaver dam analogues (BDAs) and post-assisted log structures (PALS) within degraded, structurally starved streams to mimic natural beaver dams and log jams. Using the stream’s own power, LTPBR structures initiate the return of stream-floodplain connectivity, groundwater recharge and sediment aggradation, consequently raising water levels, extending the hydroperiod, and reducing incision – natural processes that bolster the system’s resilience to drought, flood, and fire.
Laurel Vint
Laurel has worked as an environmental educator and programs coordinator for six years and now combines her passion for coastal ecology with an academic background in environmental sustainability to study blue carbon. Her research focuses on the Habitat Skirt, an engineered intertidal reef surrounding the Vancouver Convention Centre that captures carbon at unquantified rates. Coastal restoration, alongside emerging blue carbon credit markets, represents a promising climate adaptation strategy. With support from her supervisor, Dr. Jamie Slogan, and partner organization, the Vancouver Convention Centre, Laurel aims to quantify the carbon captured by this system and explore the potential value of adopting a blue carbon credit framework in Canada.
Sylvie Stewart-Grantham
Sylvie is excited to be pursuing a Master of Science in Ecological Restoration at BCIT, with a thesis in restoring canopy-forming kelp forests. Under the supervision of Dr. James Slogan, and in partnership with Woodfibre LNG, Sylvie’s thesis aims to conduct a pilot study, evaluating two different restorative techniques to inform future kelp restoration and habitat offsetting efforts in Howe Sound. Importantly, this project also intends on contributing to social and cultural values by supporting species integral to the Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) fisheries and coastal heritage such as Pacific herring and salmonids. This project aims to promote both ecological resilience and respectful stewardship in the waters of Atl’ḵa7tsem (Howe Sound).
Lizzy Cannell
Under the supervision of Dr. Douglas Ransome and partnered with The Nature Trust of BC, Lizzy Cannell is completing a thesis project that examines the comparative effectiveness of different management strategies for butterfly bush (Buddleja davidii). This invasive plant often forms dense thickets that outcompete native vegetation, and mature plants are difficult to remove due to their extensive root systems and brittle stems. At The Nature Trust of BC’s Chilliwack River Conservation Area, Lizzy has established an experimental design examining four treatments: cut control, solarization through solar tarp installation, cut-stump herbicide application, and cutting followed by planting. Lizzy hopes that their research can inform future evidence-based management for practitioners.
Robin Song
Robin is a first-year master’s student in Ecological Restoration (BSc Environmental Science, Simon Fraser University), supervised by Dr. James Slogan. His research examines coastal marsh recovery at Mud Bay in Surrey after the construction of a “Living Dike,” a nature-based shoreline treatment designed to mitigate sea level rise. Coastal marshes provide many important ecosystem functions (water filtration, carbon storage, storm buffering, etc.). However, marshes along the coast of British Columbia have been degraded by anthropogenic activity and climate change. Robin’s study focuses on benthic, bottom-dwelling invertebrates as indicators of ecosystem health, comparing restored sites with nearby natural marshes to assess Living Dike health and performance.
Ziggy Sveinson
Ziggy is performing his M.Sc. thesis research under the supervision of Dr. Anayansi Cohen-Fernández, in partnership with Peninsula Streams and Shorelines. His work will identify, assess, and restore priority marine habitat for the Blue-listed sea-run Coastal Cutthroat trout in Victoria’s Gorge Waterway. Using acoustic telemetry, he will characterize their marine behaviour for the first time in BC. Combining this analysis with a habitat functionality assessment, he will develop recommendations for the restoration of critical habitat in the Gorge, helping this species flourish once again. Ziggy is inspired to spend his career healing the incredible land and seascapes of coastal British Columbia.
### 2024-2026 Cohort
Jason Wegman
Jason’s professional and personal mission is to help reunite humanity with Nature, and through this rekindled relationship, help us rediscover our relationship with each other. Interconnectedness underpins all his work. He is strengthening his own relationship with Nature through his thesis research on the threatened mountain holly fern (Polystichum scopulinum) in Rossland BC. Under the guidance of Dr. Anayansi Cohen-Fernandez Jason is looking at the fern’s relationship to its microsites and the ultramafic rock that characterizes its habitat. His research will contribute to the conservation of the species and the reclamation of the Record Ridge mine through the translocation of ferns from the site into newly constructed habitat.
## Contact Us
Anita Lai Program Assistant Tel: 604-432-8465 Email: anita_lai@bcit.ca
Douglas Ransome Program Head Tel: 604-431-4985 Email: Doug_Ransome@bcit.ca
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
