URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/ecological-restoration-bachelor-of-science-full-time-part-time-8040bsc/
Title: Ecological Restoration
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Ecological Restoration
Bachelor of Science Full-time/Part-time School of Construction and the Environment
## Overview
Delivery: in person. See details .
Become a part of Canada’s premier environmental and restoration related programs. BCIT invites you to join one of the most unique educational models in Canada. In the time it takes to do a typical university degree, you can get two academic credentials; a Diploma in Fish, Wildlife and Recreation (FWR) or Forest and Natural Areas Management (FNAM) and a Bachelor’s Degree in Ecological Restoration.
Completion of either of these two-year diploma programs (or similar programs elsewhere) will provide you with the strong foundation needed to apply for entry into BCIT’s Degree in Ecological Restoration. This degree, the first of its kind in Canada, provides world-class applied training on restoring the numerous damaged aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems that exist across British Columbia, Canada, and around the world.
Ecological Restoration (ER) is a scientific discipline that has recently emerged due to the increasing need to restore damaged ecosystems. Restoration scientists and practitioners are ‘ecosystem physicians’ …. Doctors apply knowledge of physiology, genetics, biochemistry, microbiology, and parasitology to address human health issues. ER practitioners apply knowledge of: ecology, hydrology, geochemistry, geomorphology, and engineering to address ecological health issues1. Natural habitats across the province have been severely impacted due to habitat destruction, urban sprawl, invasive species expansions, and direct damage due to industrial contamination of soils and aquatic resources. These factors combined with the resulting increase in number of threatened and endangered species have resulted in the strong need for ecosystem restoration work across the province and around the world.
The Bachelor Degree in Ecological Restoration provides graduates with a strong foundation in the methods available to restore a broad range of ecosystems that have been impacted by human influences in British Columbia, across Canada and in other parts of the world. Ecological Restoration graduates will not only bring skills and expertise to current employers but will also be leaders and innovators in this rapidly-developing industry.
These programs are widely renowned locally and internationally for their “ﬁeld-oriented” learning and applied research. Working with our many diverse partners on a wide range of applied restoration projects, students gain extensive experience tackling some of the many environmental challenges facing local, regional, provincial and international communities.
NOTE: 1 This analogy was originally described by Hood and Simenstad in Roman, C.T. and D.M. Burdick’s (2012) book titled: Tidal Marsh Restoration: A Synthesis of Science and Management. Island Press, Washington, DC.
### Check out our virtual info session for more information
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
Full-time
Applications are accepted during the following periods:
Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intake may fill before the deadline.
Part-time
Applications are accepted throughout the year with intake options available during the following periods:
Intake | Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
Winter (January) | February 1st* | Domestic students: January 2nd* International students: November 1st*
Fall (September) | October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intakes may fill before the deadline. If you are currently registered in a course or planning to start, submit your application early to secure your spot in the program.
### Entrance requirements
Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Post-secondary: one of the following: BCIT diploma: Fish, Wildlife and Recreation (FWR) diploma program* or Forest and Natural Areas Management diploma program* *Currently enrolled full-time BCIT diploma students applying to the full-time degree may be conditionally accepted based on successful completion of their diploma. Alternate entry**: A two-year diploma in a relevant discipline (e.g., natural resource management) from a recognized post-secondary institution or Successful completion of at least the first two years of a university program in a relevant discipline (e.g., natural resource management, ecology, environmental science, forestry). This must consist of a minimum of 60.0 university credits comprised of 30.0 credits at the 100 level and 30.0 credits at the 200 level and above (1 credit is equivalent to 15 hours course work). Credits must be university-transferable. Departmental review is required. **Alternate entry applicants must meet with the program area prior to applying for an assessment of their academic background. The assessment will evaluate the applicant’s academic background and identify whether bridging courses must be completed prior to applying into the program. When all necessary entry requirements have been completed, the applicant can apply by uploading their completed assessment document along with their latest transcript showing the completion of required bridging courses, if needed.
- Completion of a post-secondary level course in introductory statistics (equivalent to BCIT's MATH 2453 ) prior to admission to the program. Applicants' academic qualifications will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Note: **For the alternate entry path these are the minimum requirements for admission to the Ecological Restoration degree program. Due to the diverse background of applicants the Ecological Restoration program reserves the right to require additional course upgrades prior to entry.
Applicants who have completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, the United States, the United 
Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand will require a comprehensive evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES) . Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered. These reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations.
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
Applicants currently enrolled in the last term of their degree/diploma must be on track to complete by May. To apply submit both of the following documents from your post-secondary institution:
- Transcript of completed courses
- Confirmation of enrolment letter verifying your current course enrolment and registration in the final term of your degree/diploma
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Students enrolled in this program must complete the mandatory work component to qualify for graduation.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program currently meets the PGWP eligibility requirements based on study program - graduates with a bachelor’s degree and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP. There are no field of study requirements (CIP) for graduates with a bachelor’s degree.
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
Part-time: January and September.
Full-time: September each year.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Re-admission
You can apply for re-admission if you:
- were previously admitted to this program and completed part of it at BCIT and
- want to re-enter the program at an advanced level.
Submit the Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF] with your application.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
## Costs & Supplies
### Tuition fees
Full-time Studies
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
Flexible Learning
Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) tuition is charged on a course-by-course basis. Please see the Flexible Learning Tuition & Fees page for more information on domestic and international tuitions.
### Books & supplies
Approximately $1,500.00 (general estimated cost, and subject to change)
A laptop will be required for some courses; approximate cost is $1000.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
Program Matrix for Graduates of 2026 – Note that there have been some minor changes made to the program and that the course schedule for Graduates of 2026 is different than course schedule below. 2026 Graduate Program is available here [PDF].
As a student in the Ecological Restoration, Bachelor of Science program, you’ll receive a solid foundation of the skills, knowledge, and experiences required to meet today’s many natural resource management and ecosystem restoration challenges.
Your learning experiences will be unique with much of the learning done through hands-on field applications involving actual ecological restoration initiatives. You will also be involved in group and individual projects, case studies, class presentations, guest lectures by active restoration specialists, laboratory sessions, field labs and an applied research project.
### Program matrix
Check current availability of courses for this program.
Level 5 (Fall - 15 weeks) | Credits
RENR 7007 | Planning for Ecological Restoration ​Designed as an introduction to ecological restoration (ER) for those with little background in this field, this course develops knowledge and skills needed to plan and implement restoration activities. The course describes the process for developing, implementing, monitoring, and refining on-the-ground restoration projects. The course begins by introducing the process of ER and common restoration techniques, with frequent reference to specific examples explored in class and on field trips. Students will expand and assess their knowledge of ER by critically reviewing several restoration plans. The main component of the course entails students working in small groups to develop a restoration plan for a degraded site in the Greater Vancouver area. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 4.0
RENR 7008 | Indigenous Perspectives in Natural Resource Management ​This course will explore the historical and contemporary relationship between First Nations and the physical environment, particularly in British Columbia. The course will give a detailed overview of the history of First Nations from both a national and provincial perspective. It will also examine the various federal acts that have impacted aboriginal peoples socially and politically. The course will explore the treaty process in British Columbia and look at Aboriginal self-government, ownership of lands and the management of natural resources. Through case studies and team projects, the course will explore the working relationship between First Nations, various levels of government and private industry particularly with respect to Traditional Ecological Knowledge, environmental management and sustainability issues. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 3.0
RENR 7010 | Geospatial Application in Natural Resource Management This course reviews technologies and tools commonly used to survey, map, and analyze geospatial data in applications of natural resource management. Students will use a range of geospatial and digital field survey tools and applications to: (i) design, access, create, translate, and edit digital data files; (ii) collect, process, and export field observations using a range of field techniques including GNSS and remote sensing technology; (iii) interpret and analyze data; and (iv) prepare and present data in technical reports and presentations. This course will support students that are new to geospatial concepts as well as review and further develop concepts and skills introduced in diploma-level geospatial courses in the Renewable Resources Department. The course will support learning of students with a range of geospatial experience using techniques such as asynchronous modules offered through the Geospatial Hub, optional supplemental in-person labs and consulting, and peer-to-peer learning. Assignments and lessons will introduce students to tools and processes that will assist them in desktop analyses and use of field observations in other courses within the Ecological Restoration BSc Program.​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 3.0
RENR 7016 | Field Skills for Ecological Restoration 1 This course is the first of a two-course series, designed to provide students with hands-on training and application of field techniques used to conduct assessments supporting restoration methods, related to variety of ecosystem types, with priority on stream and riparian habitats in the first term. A strong emphasis will be placed on field safety protocols and establishing safety plans. Modules included in the class may vary among years and will depend on the season they are conducted in. Modules may include (but are not limited to) assessments in areas such as water quality, stream flow, fish and fish habitat, benthic macroinvertebrates, vegetation, and installation and stability assessments of in-stream wood structures. Each module will focus on proper maintenance and use of survey equipment essential to obtaining accurate results, as well as proper interpretation of field survey results. Each term, several modules will be provided to students, of which there will be required modules and others offered as a selection. Students will complete a minimum number of modules to complete the course​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 2.0
**And must complete one or more courses from the list of Ecological Restoration specific elective courses. Electives will vary depending on needs of the program and industry. Elective course offerings will be determined by the department.
Level 6 (Winter - 15 weeks) | Credits
LIBS 7001 | Critical Reading and Writing This is a course in advanced composition and rhetoric, in which students will develop skills in complex critical analysis and interpretation by analyzing and evaluating materials from a variety of discourses or genres, including visual, online, and print; developing and writing essays, including critiques and research papers; applying and discussing principles of rhetoric and critical theory; examining and using methods of interpretation and analysis from the humanities and social sciences; evaluating the credibility of primary and secondary sources, including as it applies to media literacy, and for the purposes of academic research; situating discourses within their historical context and relevant to rhetorical theories of different periods (for example, Aristotle in the ancient world and Bakhtin in the twentieth century). The course format will include lecture, discussion, and both individual and group activities. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177 or equivalent, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 7100 | Biostatistics for Natural Resource Managers ​Statistics play a key role in ecological restoration by helping biologists make sense of complex environmental data and evaluate the success of restoration efforts. The goal of this course is to extend students’ statistical skills beyond the introductory level, with a focus on solving and understanding data analysis problems commonly encountered in the natural resource and environmental fields. This course places considerable emphasis on applying statistical methods to real-world problems, interpreting technical and journal articles, and analyzing and presenting data using modern computing tools such as statistical software and generative AI. Prerequisite(s): MATH 2453 course outline | 4.0
RENR 7001 | Foundations of Biology This course provides an overview of key biological topics relevant to the field of ecosystem restoration and conservation biology. Topics will include: the chemistry of life, including the structure and function of macromolecules, cell structures and membranes, the gene (meiosis, Mendelian genetics, chromosomes and inheritance), and evolution. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 3.0
RENR 7026 | Field Skills for Ecological Restoration 2 ​This course is the second of a two-course series, designed to provide students with hands-on training and application of field techniques used to conduct assessments supporting restoration methods, related to variety of ecosystem types, with a continued emphasis on field safety. Modules included in the class may vary among years and will depend on the season they are conducted in. Modules may include (but are not limited to) assessments in areas such as water quality, stream flow, fish and fish habitat, benthic macroinvertebrates, vegetation, and installation and stability assessments of in-stream wood structures. Each module will focus on proper maintenance and use of survey equipment essential to obtaining accurate results, as well as proper interpretation of field survey results. Each term, several modules will be provided to students, of which there will be required modules and others offered as a selection. Students will complete a minimum number of modules to complete the course Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 2.0
RENR 7200 | Climate and Climate Change Impact ​Understanding how climate change impacts ecosystems as well as techniques that increase the ability of ecosystems to withstand these impacts are essential to a successful career in natural resource management. This course begins by developing an understanding of the key processes that influence local weather versus climate patterns, as well as an understanding of climate feedback processes. The course will clarify the relative contributions of different human activities to recent and ongoing climate change, as well as explore the diverse impacts of this climate change on ecosystems. Relying heavily on case studies, this class will develop the student's ability to understand and critique common techniques used to increase the ability of ecosystems to withstand projected climate-related stressors. The course also explores key government regulations used to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) as well as to mitigate the impacts of human-caused climate change on ecosystems. Course content will focus especially on climate topics that are relevant to southwestern British Columbia.​​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 3.0
RENR 8201 | Terrain and Stream Channel Assessment for Ecological Restoration This course provides an outline of the physical processes that control how watersheds function; it provides the necessary geophysical link with biology required to successfully plan, undertake and complete ecological restoration. Both terrestrial and fluvial processes are considered. Because these processes require understanding of general geoscience principals, this course includes selected basic introduction to earth science concepts. The first section of the course covers general earth science principals leading into terrain assessment, including a wide range of terrain attributes, with mapping and related interpretations such as landslide and erosion hazards from the point of view of the map user and according to current provincial (British Columbia) standards. Topics covered include an overview of watershed assessment approaches, morphometry, hydrological concepts, surficial materials and landforms, principles of soil physical behavior (e.g., drainage and strength), use of terrain maps, terrain map symbols, and developing terrain maps landslide and other slope processes. The second section, dealing with fluvial processes, covers the collection and interpretation of stream channel data. Other topics will include: the provincial Channel Assessment Procedure and the effects of land use on stream channel, gully and alluvial fan morphology, and channel restoration strategies. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 4.0
**And may complete one or more courses from the list of Ecological Restoration specific elective courses. Electives will vary depending on needs of the program and industry. Elective course offerings will be determined by the department.
Level 7 (Fall - 15 weeks) | Credits
LIBS 7017 | Environmental Ethics ​We will address questions about norms that guide environmental policies, using theories and methods of reasoning provided by the discipline of ethics. We will examine public environmental policies, and other related policies that pertain to research on human subjects, such as reproductive rights and genetic engineering. Examination and evaluation of these policies will help us develop skills in ethical analysis, a working knowledge of ethical principles and theories, and the ability to diagnose and resolve ethical disagreements. To frame our discussion about the environment, we will attempt to answer such questions as: Q1) What is the value of ecological balance? Q2) How should we perceive the relationship between human beings and the rest of nature? Q3) What do we want to achieve with environmental policy?​ Prerequisite(s): ENGL 1177, or 3 credits of a university/college essay-based course, or 6 credits BCIT 1100-level Communication. course outline | 3.0
RENR 8101 | Terrestrial Ecosystem Restoration Terrestrial Ecosystem Restoration covers the principles (science) and practice (art) of restoration of terrestrial ecosystems with particular reference to problems and procedures in the Pacific Northwest and BC. The course focuses on a regional overview of the biogeography and environmental history of the Pacific Northwest. The process of ecological restoration, from goal setting and project planning through to monitoring and adaptive management will be discussed. Intensive examination of ecological restoration of the major ecosystems of the region will be conducted, along with managing natural areas in urban environments, invasive species, climate change, and management at different scales. Students will use this information to design (and present to fellow students and clients) a restoration plan for a specific BC ecosystem, including: identifying a `degraded', `damaged', `destructed', or `transformed' ecosystem; identify (through sampling and background research) their `reference ecosystem'; setting goals and objectives; design a restoration plan and monitoring (adaptive management) protocol; and their planned public education activities. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 4.0
RENR 8105 | Fire and Ecosystem Management ​The course reviews the fundamentals of fire science, documents the ecological role of fire across British Columbia and examines fire as a tool for managing biological and physical aspects of terrestrial ecosystems. Through a combination of theory, relevant research and field assessments, students will learn how fire and restoration ecology are interconnected.​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 2.0
RENR 8106 | Wetland and Estuary Restoration ​This course covers the fundamentals of wetland and estuary form, function, classification and restoration in Canada. The wetland section of the course covers wetland classification, examines mechanisms of wetland loss and the importance of wetlands in storing carbon, and the physical, chemical and biological mechanisms by which constructed wetlands remove pollutants from urban storm water. The steps for building groundwater wetlands, surface water wetlands, wetlands with liners and floating surface wetlands will be examined, in addition to the steps for building and maintaining constructed wetlands. The estuary section of the course covers estuary classification, reviews the ecological importance of estuaries and reviews the physical, chemical and biological nature of estuaries. Procedures for restoring estuaries is covered, including dealing with invasive species (plant and animal) and legacy contaminants. The course will focus on re-establishing the carbon flux and storage in the estuaries through re-planting of sub tidal eelgrass, emergent sedges and strategic placement of large woody debris. Students will participate in a field trip to design a wetland for construction the following year, construct a wetland, or monitor the performance of a recently constructed wetland. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 4.0
RENR 8300 | Applied Research Project 1* ​Designed as the capstone to the Ecological Restoration Program, this is the first of a two-course series that entails students working in small groups to further develop knowledge and hands-on skills needed to plan and implement ecological restoration activities. This course entails student teams identifying sites on which to focus for the two-course series, as well as developing detailed site assessments and restoration goals/objectives.Projects must be approved by the instructors, though may focus on one or a combination of the steps critical to the restoration process (i.e., projects may focus on designing/planning, implementing, monitoring, or reviewing/assessing restoration). Students will submit multiple written documents for review. Class meetings will entail a variety of activities designed to complement project development. This course will emphasizes high levels of student responsibility in developing project goals and objectives. At regular intervals, instructors will provide assessment of progress. However, groups are strongly encouraged to communicate with instructors as often as needed about challenges and opportunities encountered. Prerequisite(s): 50% in RENR 7007 Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 4.0
RENR 8301 | Research Design & Implementation The goal of Research Design and Implementation is to provide students with the tools and knowledge to effectively design, implement, and use research as the basis for making appropriate decisions in designing and implementing restoration activities. To meet this goal, we will discuss some fundamental concepts including: science, the scientific method, reliable knowledge, poor science, and experimental design. We'll examine how to ask 'why' questions, how to design appropriate research/monitoring plans to address these questions, and how to package this information (including project budgets) into an informative, scientifically defensible proposal on a chosen ecological restoration activity. This course is designed to strengthen critical thinking skills when reviewing current information and when formulating new activities in ecological restoration. The course is a discussion-based course where concepts and ideas are discussed among the students and by the students. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 3.0
**And may complete one or more courses from the list of Ecological Restoration specific elective courses. Electives will vary depending on needs of the program and industry. Elective course offerings will be determined by the department.
Level 8 (Winter - 15 weeks) | Credits
RENR 7002 | Environmental Assessment This course covers the history, purpose and methods of environmental impact assessment (EIA). The purpose and an overview of approaches to EIA are presented and the Environmental Assessment Act of BC will be used as an example of environmental assessment (EA) policy and procedure.. Environmental assessment procedures according to Canadian Standards Association (CSA) will also be discussed. Examples of EA in other jurisdictions (e.g., USA, South America, et al.) will be reviewed. Methods and techniques for assessing environmental impacts and actions, such as avoidance, mitigation, reclamation or restoration, are surveyed and critically examined through class discussions, guest speakers and case studies. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 3.0
RENR 8103 | Conservation Biology Conservation biology is the science of biology that looks at human impacts on biological diversity and possible means to prevent extinction of native species. Topics to be covered in this course include: principles of conservation biology and biological diversity, biological diversity of British Columbia, value of biological diversity, threats to biological diversity, invasive species management, climate change and its impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity, species at risk, habitat loss and fragmentation, island biogeography theory, and the species area relationship as it relates to biodiversity conservation and the design and planning of protected areas. Field sessions outside of scheduled class time will be required. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 4.0
RENR 8202 | Stream Assessment and Restoration ​This course develops the foundational skills needed to link geomorphic processes and freshwater aquatic habitat in efforts to successfully evaluate and restore freshwater stream habitat in a changing climate. This course focuses on data collection methods and analysis techniques used to determine stream function and health in the Pacific Northwest. Topics include physical stream processes and their link to signs of habitat degradation, evaluating fish habitat and channel substrate for spawning suitability, and using digital tools to evaluate historical channel changes. Students will also learn methods for increasing stream habitat complexity, designing off-channel habitat, evaluating barriers to fish passage, low-tech restoration strategies, and effectively communicating about restoration with the public. ​ Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 4.0
RENR 8400 | Applied Research Project 2* ​In conjunction with an industry sponsor, students will undertake a research project related to ecological restoration. The research project must contain elements that are innovative, experimental, or exploratory in nature. A department committee will supervise the progress of the project, provide guidance and direction where appropriate, and evaluate the final report. The goal of the course is to provide students with an opportunity to work independently on an industry sponsored applied research project. In doing so, students will learn to rely on their critical thinking and analysis skills to investigate, evaluate, synergize, develop, and implement a pragmatic approach toward solving an environmental research problem. Prerequisite(s): 50% in RENR 8300 Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 5.0
**And may complete one or more courses from the list of Ecological Restoration specific elective courses. Electives will vary depending on needs of the program and industry. Elective course offerings will be determined by the department. *Note: For Part-time Studies, Program Head approval is required prior to registration for RENR 8300 – Applied Research Project and RENR 8400 – Applied Research Project 2
General Education Component | Credits
LIBS 7001 , LIBS 7002 , RENR 7008 , and RENR 8301 are accepted as General Education electives. Courses are completed in Levels 5-8. **Electives: minimum of 6.0 credits required Complete two courses in Levels 5, 7, or 8:
RENR 7000 | Foundations of Chemistry ​This course covers basic principles of chemistry. The major topics are atomic structure, nomenclature, stoichiometry, redox reactions, and electrochemistry. Additional material includes chemical bonding, solutions, neutralization and solubility of compounds. The importance of precipitation reactions for the treatment of water and wastewater will also be examined. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 3.0
RENR 7004 | Fish & Wildlife Ecology & Management The first part of the course provides students with a solid foundation in fisheries management with a focus on British Columbia. This course emphasizes fish identification, fish measurements, ichthyology, life history, basic biological features, fisheries management issues (e.g., mark recapture, stock recruitment), fish culture and fisheries techniques. The second part of the course covers the principles and practice of wildlife ecology and management with particular emphasis on inventory protocols and species at risk in BC. Topics include: biology and ecology of wildlife species; dynamics of wildlife populations; methods of studying wildlife; natural and artificial regulation of animal numbers; control of problem wildlife; evaluation and enhancement of wildlife habitats; management for harvest. Field sessions outside of scheduled class time will be required. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Ecological Restoration degree program or by departmental approval. course outline | 4.0
RENR 8107 | Restoring Wildlife Populations Restoration plans must take into account the needs of current or desired wildlife species in project areas. This course gives ecologists, restorationists, administrators, and other professionals involved with restoration projects the tools they need to understand essential ecological concepts, helping them to design restoration projects that can improve conditions for native species of wildlife. It also offers specific guidance and examples on how various projects have been designed and implemented. This course interweaves theoretical and practical aspects of wildlife biology that are directly applicable to the restoration and conservation of animals. It provides an understanding of the fundamentals of wildlife populations and wildlife-habitat relationships as it explores the concept of habitat, its historic development, components, spatial-temporal relationships, and role in land management. It applies these concepts in developing practical tools for professionals. The course is based on Morrison, M.L. 2009. (Restoring Wildlife: Ecological Concepts and Practical Applications) and Maehr et al. 2001 (Large Mammal Restoration), both published by Island Press, Washington, USA. Case studies will be used to illustrate concepts while field labs will train students on key concepts. Prerequisite(s): RENR 7004 Or equivalent or by department approval. course outline | 4.0
RPAS 3100 | Introduction to Interdisciplinary RPAS Applications ​This course introduces students to a wide variety of applications of remotely piloted aircraft systems (RPAS, aka drones). You will learn from six instructors from the following program areas; Geomatics, Fish, Wildlife & Recreation, Media, Film and Broadcast, Aerospace about how drones are being used to gather important information about our environment. As drones increasingly become an indispensable tool across many fields, it is important to understand their capabilities and limitations. This truly interdisciplinary course offers an introductory insight into the rapidly evolving field of drone applications and helps students better understand the cross-sectoral utility of this positively disruptive technology. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Note: ER329 – Mining Reclamation (UVIC course) is also acceptable. Not all courses are offered every term. Check with Program Head .
Total Credits: | 73.0
Check current availability of courses for this program.
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
The delivery methods for the Bachelor of Science in Ecological Restoration are a combination of classroom-based delivery, hands-on field applications and distributed learning modes. Instruction methods include group and individual projects, group activities, case studies, class presentations, guest lectures by active restoration specialists, laboratory sessions, field labs and exercises, and an applied research project.
A key component of the Ecological Restoration undergraduate degree are the field visits to active restoration projects in the Lower Mainland and other parts of the province. Students in the program go on several multi-day field trips to locations like Squamish, Lillooet, Merritt, Logan Lake, Kamloops, Vancouver Island and throughout the Lower Mainland. Real-world ecological restoration scenarios will be presented through assignments and team-based projects within courses, with a capstone Applied Research Project being the culmination of applied learning in the program.
### Program length
Approximately 24 months for the full-time program.
Part-time students may proceed at a pace of their choice, but must complete the program within seven years.
### Grading
Students must obtain a mark of 50% or better based on assignments, exercises, quizzes, exams, and projects, as indicated in the individual course outlines.
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
## Graduating & Jobs
### Job Opportunities
The United Nations has designated 2020-2030 the Decade on Ecosystem Restoration . However, there is a current shortage of biologists qualified to successfully engage in restoration across British Columbia and Canada. The Ecological Restoration BSc Program at BCIT develops a strong foundation in the suite of applied knowledge and skills critical to protecting and restoring aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. Our graduates are highly employable ( Student Outcomes pdf ) and work in both entry-level and advanced positions with governments (Indigenous, municipal, regional, provincial, federal), private industry including consulting organizations, as well as non-profit organizations (e.g., BC Wildlife Federation, Ducks Unlimited Canada).
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Ecological Restoration
### Professional associations
Graduates from BCIT’s Degree program in Ecological Restoration, who have completed the first two years in BCIT’s Fish, Wildlife and Recreation program will meet the academic requirements for application into the College of Applied Biology.
Graduates from the ER program who have completed their previous education at another institution should complete the Academic Self-Assessment Tool for R.P.Bio. to determine whether their prior education meets the entry requirements of the College of Applied Biology.
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
### Program Head
### Dave Harper
Contact Information
Faculty and Program Head, Ecological Restoration (BSc) British Columbia Institute of Technology 3700 Willingdon Avenue, Burnaby, BC V5G 3H2 T: 604.432.8288 | dharper@bcit.ca
Education
Dave is a graduate of the Fish, Wildlife and Recreation advanced diploma program and the Environmental Engineering degree program, both at BCIT.
Work Experience
In the consulting industry, Dave gained a variety of experience including environmental monitoring, park management, waterfowl capture, tagging and foraging research, and wildlife trapping and sampling. Dave spent more than 8 years working for the BC Conservation Foundation on the Greater Georgia Basin Steelhead Recovery Program and later on the multi-species Fisheries Recovery Program. Main focuses included project management, stock assessment, stream nutrient enrichment and monitoring, and habitat restoration. He led the first in-stream application using a fertilizer recovered from wastewater to increase the productivity of a Fraser Valley stream, later expanding the program to 5 other local streams. Throughout streams in the Lower Mainland, he has been involved in more than 60 enhancement projects including a 44-log engineered log jam on the Cheakamus River and more recently with fish habitat restoration at the Seymour River and Lynn Creek estuaries. As a faculty member in the Ecological Restoration programs (BSc and MSc) in Assistant Instructor and Instructor roles, Dave looks forward to mentoring and working alongside students as they become the next generation of environmental stewards responsible for providing valuable contributions to the restoration, enhancement and conservation of aquatic and terrestrial species and their habitat.
### Faculty
###
### Eric Anderson, PhD
Contact Information
Faculty Ecological Restoration BSc & MSc British Columbia Institute of Technology 3700 Willingdon Avenue, Burnaby, BC V5G 3H2 T: 604.456.1085 | Eric_anderson@bcit.ca
Education
- Post-doctoral research at: Simon Fraser University (Centre for Wildlife Ecology), Environment and Climate Change Canada (Pacific Wildlife Research Centre), and University of British Columbia
- MSc and PhD in Zoology and Physiology, University of Wyoming
- Graduate Program in Environmental Education, Teton Science School/Utah State University
- BSc in Mathematics, University of Puget Sound
Work Experience
Dr. Eric M. Anderson is a faculty in the Ecological Restoration BSc and MSc programs at the British Columbia Institute of Technology. He and his BCIT students have conducted applied ecological research with a range of partners, such as Metro Vancouver, Ducks Unlimited Canada, City of Vancouver, Delta Farmland & Wildlife Trust, and Squamish River Watershed Society. Eric is also a Research Fellow of the Pacific WildLife Foundation, a Science Advisor for SeaDoc Society (UC Davis), a Research Scientist at Friday Harbor Labs (U. of Washington), and an Adjunct Professor at Simon Fraser University (SFU). He completed his MSc and PhD in Zoology and Physiology at the U. of Wyoming, and conducted postdoctoral research at SFU (Centre for Wildlife Ecology), Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) Pacific Wildlife Research Centre, and the University of British Columbia (UBC).
Eric’s research focuses especially on the ecology and conservation of nearshore ecosystems along the Pacific Coast. Some recent research projects include:
- Causes of mortality in a Harbor Seal population at carrying capacity (with SeaDoc Society, The Whale Museum, Washington Dept. of Fish and Wildlife, Animal Health Center)
- Effects of proposed off-shore wind power development in Haida Gwaii on marine birds (with SFU, ECCC)
- Functional dependencies of sea ducks on seagrass beds and herring spawn (with SFU, ECCC)
- Effects of trace elements on sea duck nutritional status (with Southern Illinois University, with SFU, ECCC)
Selected Publications
(*Denotes undergraduate or MSc student authors):
Brooks, M.L., J.R. Lovvorn, *J. Hallman Behnke, E.M. Anderson . 2021. Detecting silent stressors: trace element effects on nutritional status of declining scoter ducks of Puget Sound, USA. Science of the Total Environment. In press .
*Dickson, R.D., D. Esler, J. Hupp, E.M. Anderson , J.R. Evenson, and J. Barrett. 2021. Dynamics of body mass and foraging effort of Surf Scoters ( Melanitta perspicillata ) and White-winged Scoters ( M. fusca ) during remigial moult. Ibis. In review .
Anderson, E.M. , *R.D. Dickson, *E.K. Lok, *E.C. Palm, J.-P.L. Savard, D. Bordage, and A. Reed. 2020. Surf Scoter ( Melanitta perspicillata ), The Birds of the World Online (P.G.Rodewald, Ed.). Ithaca: Cornell Lab of Ornithology.
*Ashley, E.A., J.K. Olson, *T.E. Adler, S. Raverty, E.M. Anderson , S. Jeffries, and J.K. Gaydos. 2020. Causes of mortality in a Harbor Seal ( Phoca vitulina ) population at equilibrium. Frontiers in Marine Science 7:Article 319. doi: 10.3389/fmars.2020.00319
*Whyte, L. M., *J. Sibbald, *A. Kujawiak, *L. Schlectleitner, D., Bondar, M. Taitt, C. Terpsma, and E.M. Anderson . 2020. Effectives of hedgerows on landbird diversity and abundance in agricultural fields. In preparation .
*Law, A.A., *M.E. Threlfall, *B.A. Tijman, E.M. Anderson , S. McCann, G. Searing, and D. Bradbeer. 2017. Diet and prey selection of Barn Swallows ( Hirundo rustica ) at Vancouver International Airport. Canadian Field-Naturalist 131:26–31.
Lewis, T.L., D. Esler, B.D. Uher-Koch, R.D. Dickson, E.M. Anderson , J.R. Evenson, J.W. Hupp, and P.L. Flint. 2017. Attaching transmitters to waterbirds using one versus two subcutaneous anchors: Retention and survival trade-offs. Wildlife Society Bulletin 41:691–700.
Anderson, E.M. , R.D. Dickson, E.K. Lok, E.C. Palm, J.-P.L. Savard, D. Bordage, and A. Reed. 2015. Surf Scoter ( Melanitta perspicillata ), The Birds of North America Online (A. Poole, Ed.). Ithaca: Cornell Lab of Ornithology.
Lovvorn, J.R., E.M. Anderson , *A.R. Rocha, W.W. Larned, J.M. Grebmeier, L.W. Cooper, J.M. Kolts, and C.A. North. 2014. Variable wind, pack ice, and prey dispersion affect the long-term adequacy of protected areas for an Arctic sea duck. Ecological Applications 24:396–412.
*Uher-Koch. B.D., D. Esler, *R.D. Dickson, J.W. Hupp, J.R. Evenson, E.M. Anderson , J. Barrett, J.A. Schmutz. 2014. Survival of Surf Scoters and White-winged Scoters during remigial molt. Journal of Wildlife Management 78:1189–1196.
*Dickson, R.D., E.M. Anderson , and D. Esler. 2014. Status report on the Western Grebe ( Aechmophorus occidentalis ). Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada.
Wilson, S.D., E.M. Anderson , A. Wilson, P. Arcese, and D.F. Bertram. 2013. Citizen science reveals an extensive shift in the winter distribution of migratory Western Grebes. PLOS ONE 8:e65408.
Palm, E.C.,D. Esler, E.M. Anderson , M.T. Wilson, T.W. Williams, and O. Love. 2013. Baseline corticosterone in wintering marine birds: methodological considerations and ecological patterns. Physiological and Biochemical Zoology 86:346–353.
Palm, E.C.,D. Esler, E.M. Anderson , T.D. Williams, and M.T. Wilson. 2013. Variation in physiology and energy management of wintering White-winged Scoters in relation to local habitat conditions. Condor 115:750–761.
Anderson, E.M. , and J.R. Lovvorn. 2012. Seasonal size dynamics of prey mediate complementary functions of mussel and seagrass habitats for an avian predator. Marine Ecology Progress Series 467:219–232.
*Palm, E.C., D. Esler, E.M. Anderson , and M.T. Wilson. 2012. Geographic and temporal variation in diet of wintering White-winged Scoters. Waterbirds 35:577–589.
*Dickson, R.D., D. Esler, J. Hupp, E.M. Anderson , J.R. Evenson, and J. Barrett. 2012. Phenology and duration of remigial moult in Surf Scoters ( Melanitta perspicillata ) and White-winged Scoters ( M. fusca ) on the Pacific coast of North America. Canadian Journal of Zoology 90:932–944.
Anderson, E.M. , D. Esler, W.S. Boyd, J.R. Evenson, D.R. Nysewander, D.H. Ward, *R.D. Dickson, *B.D. Uher-Koch, *C.S. VanStratt, and J.W. Hupp. 2012. A preliminary assessment of the predator seascape for scoters: predation rates, timing, and predator composition. Canadian Journal of Zoology 90:42–50.
Anderson, E.M. , and J.R. Lovvorn. 2011. Contrasts in energy status and marine foraging strategies of White-winged Scoters ( Melanitta fusca ) and Surf Scoters ( M. perspicillata ). Auk 128:248−257.
Anderson, E.M. , J.R. Lovvorn, D. Esler, W.S. Boyd, and K.C. Stick. 2009. Using predator distributions, diet, and condition to evaluate seasonal foraging sites: sea ducks and herring spawn. Marine Ecology Progress Series 386: 287–302.
Anderson, E.M. , J.L. Bower, D.R. Nysewander, J.R. Evenson, and J.R. Lovvorn. 2009. Changes in avifaunal abundance in a heavily used wintering and migration site in Puget Sound, Washington, during 1966–2007. Marine Ornithology 37:19–27.
Anderson, E.M. , and J.R. Lovvorn. 2008. Gray whales may increase feeding opportunities for avian benthivores. Marine Ecology Progress Series 360:291–296.
Anderson, E.M. , J.R. Lovvorn, and M.T. Wilson. 2008. Reevaluating marine diets of Surf and White-winged scoters: interspecific differences and the importance of soft-bodied prey. Condor 110:285–295.
Anderson, E.M. 2007. Changes in bird communities and willow habitats associated with fed elk. Wilson Journal of Ornithology 119:400–409.
### Ana Chará-Serna, PhD
Contact Information
Faculty, Ecological Restoration BSc & MSc British Columbia Institute of Technology 3700 Willingdon Avenue, Burnaby, BC V5G 3H2 T: 604.456.1199 | ana_chara_serna@bcit.ca
Education
- PhD in Freshwater Ecology, Faculty of Forestry, University of British Columbia
- MSc in Aquatic Sciences, School of Natural Resources and Environment, University of Michigan, USA
- BSc (Hns) in Biology, Emphasis in Ecology, Universidad del Valle, Colombia
Work Experience
Dr. Ana Chará-Serna is an Instructor for the Ecological Restoration BSc and MSc programs at BCIT. Ana is an Aquatic Biologist with over 15 years of experience across academia, industry, and the non-profit sector in Colombia and Canada. As an academic researcher, Ana spent more than 7 years investigating how human activities impact biota and functioning of freshwater ecosystems. In the non-profit sector, Ana participated in the assessment of riparian forest restoration projects on stream ecosystems of Colombia. As an environmental consultant, she gained practical experience in the real-world challenge of applying environmental science on monitoring and conservation of aquatic ecosystems in BC.
Most of Ana’s research has focused on the effects of agriculture on freshwater biodiversity, particularly benthic invertebrates, and ecosystem functioning. Her studies have addressed the ecological role of riparian forest buffers in mountainous agricultural landscapes, the effects of local agricultural practices on tropical Andean streams, the interactive effects of multiple agricultural stressors on experimental freshwater ecosystems, and the dynamics of zooplankton communities in the Illinois River. At BCIT, Ana has supervised MSc and BSc applied research projects in topics including restoration of freshwater wetlands, stream habitat restoration for amphibian species, effects of road salt inputs in benthic invertebrate communities of the Lower Mainland, quantification of blue carbon in subtidal eelgrass, and monitoring of nature-based wave attenuation infrastructure in coastal environments.
Selected Publications
Boyero L., Pérez J., López-Rojo N., Tonin A.M., Correa-Araneda F., Chará-Serna A.M. , Et al (2021) Impacts of detritivore diversity loss on instream decomposition are greatest in the tropics. Nature Communications, 12: 3700.
Chara-Serna A.M. , Richardson, J.S. (2021) Multiple-Stressor Interactions in Tributaries Alter Downstream Ecosystems in Stream Mesocosm Networks. Water 13(9): 1194
Boyero L., Perez J., Lopez-Rojo N., Tonin A.M., Correa-Araneda F., Chará-Serna A.M. , Et al (2021) Latitude dictates plant diversity effects on instream decomposition. Science Advances, 7: eabe7860.
Chará-Serna AM , Casper, A. 2020. How do large river zooplankton communities respond to abiotic and biotic drivers over time? A complex and spatially dependent example. Freshwater Biology, 66(2): 391-405.
Chará-Serna AM , Epele LB, Morrissey CA, Richardson JS. 2019. Nutrients and sediment modify the impacts of a neonicotinoid insecticide on freshwater community structure and ecosystem functioning. Science of the Total Environment, 692: 1291–1303.
Chará-Serna AM , Richardson JS. 2018. Chlorpyrifos interacts with other agricultural stressors to alter stream communities in laboratory microcosms. Ecological Applications, 28(1): 162-176.
Chará-Serna AM , Chará J, Giraldo LP, Zúñiga MC, Allan JD. 2015. Understanding the impacts of agriculture on Andean stream ecosystems of Colombia: a causal analysis using aquatic macroinvertebrates as indicators of biological integrity. Freshwater Science, 34(2): 727-740.
Boyero L, Pearson RG, Swan CM, Hui C, Albariño RJ, Arunachalam M, Callisto M, Chará J, Chará Serna AM , Chauvet E, Cornejo A, Dudgeon D, et al. 2015. Latitudinal gradient of nestedness and its potential drivers in stream detritivores. Ecography, 38: 949-955
Chará-Serna AM , Chará J, Zúñiga MC, Pearson RG. Boyero L. 2012. Diets of leaf litter-associated invertebrates in three tropical streams. Annales de Limnologie – International Journal of Limnology, 48: 139-144.
Boyero L, Pearson RG, Dudgeon D, Ferreira V, Graça MAS, Gessner MO, Boulton AJ, Chauvet E, Yule CM, Albariño RJ, Ramírez A, Helson JE, Callisto M, Arunachalam M, Chará J, Figueroa R, Mathooko JM, Gonçalves JF JR, Moretti MS, Chará-Serna AM , et al. 2012. Global patterns of stream detritivore distribution: implications for biodiversity loss in changing climates. Global Ecology and Biogeography, 21: 134-141.
Giraldo LP, Chará J, Zúñiga MC, Chará-Serna AM , Pedraza GX. 2014. Agricultural land use impacts on aquatic macroinvertebrates in small streams from La Vieja River (Valle del Cauca, Colombia). International Journal of Tropical Biology and Conservation, 62(2):203-219.
Boyero L, Pearson RG, Dudgeon D, Graça MAS, Gessner MO, Albariño RJ, Ferreira V, Yule CM, Boulton AJ, Arunachalam M, Callisto M, Chauvet E, Ramírez A, Chará J, Moretti MS, Gonçalves JF JR, Helson JE, Chará-Serna AM , Encalada AC, et al. 2011. Global distribution of a key trophic guild contrasts with common latitudinal diversity patterns. Ecology, 92 (9): 1839-1848.
### Douglas B. Ransome, PhD, RPBio
Contact Information
Faculty, Ecological Restoration BSc & MSc British Columbia Institute of Technology 3700 Willingdon Avenue, Burnaby, BC V5G 3H2 T: 604.431.4985 | dransome@bcit.ca
Education
- PhD on resource limitation of northern flying squirrels and Douglas squirrels in managed forests in 2001 from the University of British Columbia.
- MSc in 1994 from the University of British Columbia.
- His undergraduate degrees include one from University of Guelph in Wildlife Management and University of Windsor in General Biology.
Work Experience
Dr. Ransome has been an instructor at BCIT since 2003. He teaches courses in Research Design and Implementation and Restoring Wildlife Populations within the ER programs; and Wildlife Ecology and Management in BCIT’s Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation Program. His research interests include examining the effects of forest practices on various wildlife populations, particularly arboreal mammals and small mammals; restoring wildlife populations; and wildlife damage and techniques to reduce damage in forestry and agricultural operations. During this time at BCIT he has been the Program Head for the BSc (2012-2018) program in Ecological Restoration and the newly designed MSc (2015-2019) program in Ecological Restoration.
Professional Designation
Dr. Ransome was a past Director for the Society of Ecological Restoration (Western Canada Chapter) and is a current director of the British Columbia Waterfowl Society. He is also a research associate with Applied Mammal Research Institute.
Selected Publications
Ransome, D.B., Sullivan, T.P., P.M.F. Lindgren. (In Prep). Are northern flying squirrels a victim of poor science? A plea for better science.
Ransome , D.B. and T.P. Sullivan. (In Prep). Managing mammal damage agents in underplanted beetle-killed northern pine forests: Snowshoe hares and habitat alteration.
Ransome , D.B. and T.P. Sullivan. (In Prep). Managing mammal damage agents in underplanted beetle-killed northern pine forests: Vole populations and plantation protection.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2021. Acceleration of forest structural development for large trees and mammals: Restoration in decades or centuries? Forests doi.org/10.3390/f12040388.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, D.B. Ransome , and L. Zabek. 2020. Twenty-five years after stand thinning and repeated fertilization in lodgepole pine forest: Implications for tree growth, stand structure, and carbon sequestration. Forests 11, 337, doi:10.3390/f11030337.
Lindgren, P.M.F., T.P. Sullivan, D.S. Sullivan, D.B. Ransome , and L. Zabek. 2017. Long-term influence of stand thinning and repeated fertilization on forage production in young lodgepole pine forests. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 47: 1123-1130
Sullivan, T.P. D.B. Ransome , D.S. Sullivan, P.M.L. Lindgren, and W. Klenner. 2017. Tree squirrel abundance and demography in managed coniferous forests of British Columbia are within the range of natural fluctuations of old-growth stands. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 47:565582
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2013. Stand structure and small mammals in intensively managed forests: Scale, time, and testing extremes. Forest Ecology and Management 310 : 1071–1087.
Antoinette J. Piaggio, A.J., B.A. Coghlan, A.E. Miscampbell, W.M. Arjo, D.B. Ransome , and C.E. Ritland. 2013. Molecular phylogeny of an ancient rodent family (Aplodontiidae). Journal of Mammalogy 94: 529-543.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2012. If we build habitat, will they come? Woody debris structures and conservation of forest mammals. Journal of Mammalogy 93: 1456-1468.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2012. Silviculture and wildlife: Snowshoe hare abundance across a successional sequence of natural and intensively managed forests. ISRN Ecology 2012: 1-10.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, D.B. Ransome , J. Bull, and C. Ristea. 2011. Bioenergy or biodiversity: Woody debris structures and maintenance of red-backed voles on clearcuts. Biomass and Bioenergy 35: 4390-4398.
Ransome , D.B. 2010. Investigation of starling populations in British Columbia and assessment of the feasibility of a trapping program in the Lower Mainland: A report prepared for British Columbia Blueberry Council, Abbotsford, British Columbia.
Ransome , D.B., and T.P Sullivan. 2010 (2009, 2008, 2007). Managing mammal damage agents in MPB-killed stands. Forest Practices Branch, Ministry of Forests and Range, Victoria, B.C.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2010. Green-tree retention and life after the beetle: Stand structure and small mammals 30 years after salvage harvesting. Silva Fennica 44: 749-774.
Ransome , D.B., P.M.F. Lindgren, H. Armleder, M.J. Waterhouse, and T.P. Sullivan. 2009. Small mammal response to group selection silvicultural systems in Engelmann spruce-subalpine fir forests: 14 years post harvest. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 39: 1698-1708.
Lindgren, P.M.F., D.B. Ransome , D.S. Sullivan, and T.P. Sullivan. 2006. Plant community attributes 12 to 14 years following pre-commercial thinning in a young lodgepole pine forest. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 36: 48-61. (SFM)
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2005. Long-term responses of ecosystem components to stand thinning in young lodgepole pine forest II. Diversity and population dynamics of forest floor small mammals. Forest Ecology and Management 205: 1-14.
Ransome , D.B., P.M.F. Lindgren, D.S. Sullivan, and T.P. Sullivan. 2004. Long-term responses of ecosystem components to stand thinning in young lodgepole pine forest. I. Population dynamics of northern flying squirrels and red squirrels. Forest Ecology and Management 202: 255-367.
Ransome , D.B., and T.P. Sullivan. 2003. Population dynamics of Glaucomys sabrinus and Tamiasciurus douglasii in old-growth and second-growth stands of coastal coniferous forest. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 33:587-596.
Ransome , D.B., and T.P. Sullivan. 2003. Effects of food and den-site supplementation on populations of northern flying squirrels ( Glaucomys sabrinus ) and Douglas squirrels ( Tamiasciurus douglasii ). Journal of Mammalogy 85: 206-215.
Ransome , D.B., and T.P. Sullivan. 2002. Short-term population dynamics of Glaucomys sabrinus and Tamiasciurus douglasii in commercially-thinned and unthinned stands of coastal coniferous forest. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 32: 2043-2050.
Sullivan, T.P., S.D. Sullivan, D.B. Ransome , and P.M.F. Lindgren. 2003. Impact of removal trapping on abundance and diversity attributes in small mammal communities. Wildlife Society Bulletins 31: 464-474.
Ransome , D.B. and T.P. Sullivan. 1997. Food limitation and habitat preference of Glaucomys sabrinus and Tamiasciurus hudsonicus . Journal of Mammalogy 78(2): 538-549.
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2009. Variable retention and life after the beetle: Stand structure and small mammals 30 years after salvage harvesting. Silva Fennica 44(5): 749–774
Sullivan, T.P., D.S. Sullivan, P.M.F. Lindgren, and D.B. Ransome . 2009. Long-term responses of mammalian herbivores to stand thinning and fertilization in young lodgepole pine forest. Can. J. For. Res. 40: 2302–2312.
### Cassie Stam (Friesen) BSc, MSc, BIT
Contact Information
Faculty, Ecological Restoration British Columbia Institute of Technology 3700 Willingdon Avenue, Burnaby, BC V5G 3H2 T:778.503.2447| cassie_friesen@bcit.ca
Education
- MSc, Ecological Restoration, Simon Fraser University, BCIT
- BSc, Biology Honours, concentration in Ecology, University of the Fraser Valley
Work Experience
Cassie Stam (Friesen) is an Instructor in the BSc Ecological Restoration program, with a strong background in biology and a passion for applied ecological science. She is an Ecologist with over six years of field experience in applied biology, including five years specializing in wetland ecosystems. Before completing her master’s degree, Cassie worked in horticultural consulting, focusing on integrated pest management and pesticide research trials. Her graduate research at Simon Fraser University and BCIT explored the predation of Western Painted Turtles (Chrysemys picta bellii) at nesting beaches across BC’s Sunshine Coast, in partnership with the Sunshine Coast Wildlife Project. Following her studies, she worked with the BC Wildlife Federation, where she led wetland restoration, monitoring, maintenance and assessment work across British Columbia. Her expertise includes wetland restoration, wetland delineation, the Wetland Ecosystem Services Protocol (WESP), and contributions to the Canadian National Wetland Inventory. She has authored wetland restoration plans with a strong emphasis on long-term site monitoring and maintenance. Cassie has led and trained field staff in wetland assessments including WESP and CNWI across the south coast and southern interior of BC. At BCIT, Cassie teaches several courses in the BSc program and supervises applied research projects. She also supports both the BSc and MSc Ecological Restoration programs as a part-time Assistant Instructor. Her research interests include wetland ecosystems, plant ecology, soil science and herpetology, with a focus on their application in ecological restoration. Cassie currently holds a Biologist in Training (BIT) designation with the College of Applied Biology in British Columbia and is working toward her Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) status.
### Millie Kuyer, BSc, RPBio (on leave)
Contact Information
Assistant Instructor, Ecological Restoration British Columbia Institute of Technology 3700 Willingdon Avenue, Burnaby, BC V5G 3H2 T: 604.454.2277 | mkuyer@bcit.ca
Education
- MSc, Environment and Management, Royal Road University, (in Progress)
- BSc, Ecological Restoration, BCIT, 2017
- Dipl. Tech. Fish, Wildlife and Recreation, BCIT, 2015
- Professional Photo Imaging, Langara College, 2009
Work Experience
Millie Kuyer has been working in the natural resource management field since 2005 and has since worked with industry, non-profit, First Nations, federal government, and environmental consultants with a focus on terrestrial ecology. She has a tech. dipl. in Fish, Wildlife and Recreation and a BSc in Ecological Restoration from BCIT and is currently pursuing her MSc in Environment and Management at Royal Roads University. She has worked as a biologist within Canada’s rocky mountain National Parks including restoration planning and monitoring for AltaLink’s 551L Transmission Line Rebuild, rare plant surveys for Lake Louise Ski Resort, environmental monitoring for the Sulphur Mountain Gondola, and riparian vegetation monitoring for the Cascade Creek restoration project. Millie also worked on Parks Canada’s whitebark pine restoration project by assisting in pine cone caging, seed collection, and tree planting in high elevation forests. Millie is currently an Assistant Instructor, provides support to all levels of programming, and supervises applied research projects for the Ecological Restoration BSc program.
Professional Designation
- RPBio, British Columbia
### Staff
### Advisory committee
- Eric Balke, Senior Restoration Biologist & Fraser River Estuary Program Manager, Ducks Unlimited Canada
- Gillian Donald, Principal, Donald Functional & Applied Ecology
- Brian Titaro, Stewardship Coordinator, Metro Vancouver
- Neil Fletcher, Director of Conservation Stewardship, BC Wildlife Federation
- Adam Huggins, Restoration Coordinator, Galiano Conservancey Association
- Jennifer McGuire, Assistant Deputy Minister, Ministry of Emergency Management and Climate Readiness
- Jennifer Moss, Restoration Biologist, Restoration Center of Expertise, Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada
- Kevin Shantz, Policy Analyst, Regulatory and Governance, Metro Vancouver – Parks, Planning & Environment Canada
- Andy Smith, Senior Biologist, Ecofish Research Ltd.
- Dan Stewart, Principal, Asarum Ecological Consulting
- Brian Titaro, Fish and Wildlife Biologist, Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
- Mae Whyte, Restoration Community of Practice Coordinator, Society for Ecosystem Restoration in Northern BC
## Contact Us
Anita Lai Program Assistant Tel: 604-432-8465 Email: anita_lai@bcit.ca
Dave Harper Program Head Tel: 604-432-8288 Email: dharper@bcit.ca
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
