URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/electrical-and-computer-engineering-technology-automation-and-instrumentation-option-diploma-full-time-534adipma/
Title: Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology (Automation and Instrumentation Option)
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology (Automation and Instrumentation Option)
Diploma Full-time School of Energy
## Overview
Part of the Electrical and Computing Engineering Technology program, the two-year diploma in Automation and Instrumentation, offers students the option to complete paid co-operative education terms. Students may apply to continue studying to complete the BCIT Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering and other advanced credentials.
Note: The September 2026 intake is now closed for new applications. Applications for re-admission and direct entry may still be submitted. Applications for the January 2027 intake are currently being accepted.
Delivery: in person. See details .
### About the program
Students undertake a comprehensive study of control strategies, measurement techniques, communications systems, and electronic and computer systems used in the automatic control of commercial and industrial equipment/machines. A strong component of the program involves the student developing relevant, practical skills by working with modern industrial equipment in well-equipped labs. Students will graduate with a solid foundation in automatic measurement and control systems.
### Who it’s for
Automation and Instrumentation might be for you if you’re interested in designing and maintaining systems that measure and control across a wide variety of industries.
To learn more, meet Pulkit Jain, a process-driven technologist and BCIT graduate who enjoys combining his passion for engineering and design to help his clients solve real world problems:
### What grads can do
Graduates are employed in the design, analysis, application, construction and installation of measurement and control systems. You might work in engineering consulting firms, manufacturing companies, energy management firms, food-and-beverage processing plants, technical sales and service, the natural resources, or the mining industry. You might work in an environment preparing engineering designs, commissioning or providing technical service, technical sales involving the application of measurement and control equipment or researching technical problems, or in a fast-paced environment where you are involved in many of the above facets, either alone or as part of a team.
Employers for the graduate of this program include commercial companies, government agencies and educational institutes. Please see the graduating and jobs link for a list of employers.
Graduates of this option may obtain a dual diploma in another ECET option by completing all the additional required courses for that option. Entry to this second option is competitive and priority is given to students completing their first option.
## Entrance Requirements
### Spend-A-Day with us
Want to learn more about our program before you apply? Come spend-a-day with us. You’ll meet students and instructors, and get a hands-on feel for what the program is about.
If you have questions regarding the entrance requirements or the application process, read Common First Year [PDF] and then visit Admission & Registration .
If you want to discuss the program content in more detail, contact the Program Head, Remya Sreenath or call 604-412-7576.
### Application processing
Applications are accepted during the following periods:
Intake | Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
Winter (January) | February 1st* | Domestic students: January 2nd* International students: November 1st*
Fall (September) | October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intakes may fill before the deadline.
All students must complete the first year of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology program before continuing to one of the two-year technologist diploma options (Automation, Telecom, or Power) or the four-year Bachelor of Engineering degree program.
### Entrance requirements
Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Math: one of the following: Pre-Calculus 12 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or MATH 0001 – Technical Mathematics (73%)
- Chemistry 11 (67%)
- Physics: one of the following: Physics 12 (67%) or PHYS 0312 – Technology Entry Physics 2 (67%)
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
### Continuation requirements
Midway through the second term of first year, students select their first and second choice for the next year(s) of the program:
- Degree (three additional years) Bachelor of Engineering
- Diploma (one additional year), options are: Automation and Instrumentation Telecommunications and Networks Electrical Power and Industrial Control
Entry to each of the diploma options and to the BEng degree is competitive by GPA. Where space issues arise, students may get their alternate choice.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Students enrolled in this program must complete the mandatory work component to qualify for graduation.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : The PGWP eligibility below applies to the Electrical Engineering Bachelor of Engineering and Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology Diploma programs.
The following currently meets the PGWP eligibility requirements based on study program - graduates with a bachelor’s degree and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP. There are no field of study requirements (CIP) for graduates with a bachelor’s degree:
- Electrical Engineering
The following currently meet the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and are eligible for students to apply for a PGWP:
- Automation and Instrumentation ( CIPC : 15.0303)
- Electrical Power and Industrial Control ( CIPC : 15.0303)
- Telecommunications and Networks ( CIPC : 15.0303)
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another post-secondary school?
Transfer credit may be granted for courses completed at another post-secondary institution where the learning outcomes duplicate those of the BCIT course. The Electrical and Computer Engineering department reserves the right to determine the granting of credit where appropriate.
To apply for transfer credit, submit a Course Credit/Exemption form [PDF] and official transcript to BCIT Student Records 14 days prior to term start. A maximum of two courses per level are eligible for credit.
If you would like to transfer a larger number of credits prior to admission, you can apply for advanced placement in this program.
### Apply to program
The Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology diploma program options share a common first year. The second year focuses on specialized options. Option selection is a competitive process, undertaken after successful completion of the first year.
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September and January each year.
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through either re-admission or direct entry . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
International students are not eligible for direct entry and must apply to Level 1.
### Re-admission
You can apply for re-admission if you:
- were previously admitted to this program and completed part of it at BCIT and
- want to re-enter the program at an advanced level.
Submit the Technology Re-admission Form [PDF] with your application.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Direct entry
You can apply for direct entry if you:
- are a new applicant to this program but already completed an equivalent part of it at BCIT or elsewhere and
- want to apply to an advanced level.
BCIT accepts complete applications until:
- March 1st* for the Fall (September) intake
- October 1st* for the Winter (January) intake
Submit the following four items with your online application:
- Proof of meeting all general entrance requirements
- Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF] showing that you have completed (or are registered in) all level 1 courses (applicants to level 2 or 3) and all level 2 courses (applicants to level 3 only) or equivalents*
- Official transcripts and course outlines for all previous education Applicants who completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand will require a comprehensive evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES). Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered. These reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations.
- A resume outlining previous education and work experience
Notice regarding equivalent courses:
Details provided for equivalent courses must outline course descriptions, learning outcomes, and topics covered. Generally, to qualify for credit, the equivalent course(s) must:
- have been completed within five (5) years,
- cover 80% or more of the same topics at a level that is comparable or higher,
- have been completed with a grade of 65% or higher.
You may be required to complete Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition (PLAR) exams to assess your competence, as determined by the ECET department. Applicants with a suitable post-secondary background will be identified and contacted by the program area. Faculty will determine which courses need to be taken or tested in. Students who are offered the opportunity to write PLAR exams will be responsible for the cost of the exams.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### The application process
Submit Online Application: Self-declare your entrance requirements and the level you are applying for. Attach your supporting documents including transcripts, resume, course-by-course self-assessment form, and ICES report (if required). ___
First Assessment: Your application will be assessed by Admissions for any required documents, prerequisites, and English language proficiency. ___
Second Assessment: The ECET department will assess your application for transfer credit and/or PLAR exams and will notify you of the outcome by email.* This occurs after the application deadline; you will be contacted around the time of your start date. Note: Transfer credit requires equivalent learning outcomes. If eligible, you may be required to write PLAR exams. ___
Option 1: If you choose to start from level 1, you must re-apply. Seats are offered on a first come, first served basis. | or | Option 2: If eligible, you may write PLAR exams and, if successful, join a waitlist for seat availability. Notification of exam dates and results will occur via communication with the Program Administrator. ___ | or | Option 3: If you are awarded transfer credits, you may choose to join a waitlist for seat availability.
Options 2 and 3: If a seat is available, you will be contacted by the Program Administrator when the term begins (possibly a few days before).
### Direct entry FAQs
- When should I apply?
- What if I don’t receive credit for all courses in the preceding term?
- Can I appeal the assessment of equivalency?
- What will happen if I cannot complete all required courses before the term starts?
- When will I be accepted?
- When will I get my timetable?
- When can I buy my books?
To register for a Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) course , visit Register for Flexible Learning courses or contact Student Information and Enrolment Services .
Still have questions? Review the Admissions FAQ or contact Program Advising .
## Costs & Supplies
The information below will help you determine the cost of taking the program and assist you in developing a budget for your two years of study.
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
Level 1: $1,520; Level 2: $540; Level 3: $550; Level 4: $450 (general estimated cost, subject to change)
Ownership of a personal computer is required and not included in the above costs.
### Recommendations for student PC hardware
Minimum requirements
- 64-bit AMD64 (x86-64) 1.8 GHz CPU
- 4 GB RAM
- 20 GB free disk space
- 1280x768 display resolution
- One free USB 2.0 port
- Earphones and microphone or headset
- Webcam (built-in or external)
- Hardware must meet requirements for installing Windows 10.
- An internet connection of at least 2 Mb/s down, 320 kb/s up. Please note that streaming lectures can result in significant total Internet use (20-100 GB/month down).
Recommended specifications
- Multi-core, 2 GHz or faster CPU
- 8 GB or more RAM
- 80 GB or more free disk space
- 1920x1080 or higher display resolution
Other notes
- “Minimum” hardware meets software vendors’ minimum requirements for software that students will have to run on their own computers (Firefox or Chrome, Digilent Waveforms, Intel Quartus Prime, and TI Code Composer). It may not provide the best user experience.
- “Recommended” hardware meets software vendors’ recommendations for software many students will want to run on their computers.
- Many students find laptops useful because they allow working away from home.
- Internet connectivity at BCIT requires a WiFi adapter.
- Most software, including Windows 10, is available through BCIT.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Program matrix
September intake: Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
COMM 1143 | Technical Communications 1 for Electrical and Computer Engineering This course emphasizes clear, correct, concise technical communication in the electronics field. Students learn how to organize technical information, write routine emails and letters, write a resume and application letter for co-op or a summer job in the field, and give short, informative presentations to small groups. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ELEX 0304 | Learning Skills for Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology This is a six hour, non-credit course designed to help students cope with the extensive workload and provide additional information about the Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. Topics covered include introduction to technology, teamwork, time management, study skills, safety, the coop program, and diploma and degree options. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline
ELEX 1105 | Circuit Analysis 1 This course covers the methods for investigating the behavior of direct current (dc) circuits whose circuit quantities (voltage, current) do not vary with time. The fundamental circuit laws developed by Kirchhoff and Ohm are applied to circuit analyses. Networks comprised of series, parallel, series/parallel and non-series/parallel interconnected branches are analyzed. Specialized circuit analysis methods: Thévenin’s, Norton’s, maximum power transfer, source transformation and superposition are applied to circuits. The application of nodal and mesh analyses to determine all voltages and currents in a circuit is developed. Laboratory sessions relate theory to practice. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
ELEX 1113 | Electronic Fabrication Tools and Techniques This course introduces the engineering problem solving techniques and the processes for the design and manufacture of electronic appliances. The design of a printed circuit board using Electronic Design Automation is undertaken. Basic electrical and mechanical hand assembly methods including: component and wire soldering, component mounting, interconnect wiring, and cable harnessing are used to construct a DC Power Supply. Functional testing is performed to demonstrate the completed unit complies with its product specifications.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
ELEX 1117 | Digital Techniques 1 This course describes why digital logic circuits have become ubiquitous, and introduces approaches to methodical design of such circuits. Decimal, Hexadecimal, and Binary number systems are described, and techniques are introduced for converting from one system to another. Binary codes for representing numerical and alphanumerical information are discussed. Basic definitions and common elements of binary logic systems are developed. Common representations of digital logic functions and circuits are introduced, including truth tables, waveform representations, schematics, distinctive symbols and Boolean expressions. Digital logic circuits using switches, LEDs and electronic gates are discussed. Logic sources are defined and interfaced to combinational logic circuits. Steady-state design characteristics of digital Integrated Circuits (IC’s) are reviewed using data sheets and this information is used to interface to real life devices. Simulation software is introduced and used to investigate logic circuits. Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs) are discussed, and systems for programming of such devices are introduced. The lecture material is reinforced by a series of lab assignments that develop skills in designing and creating prototype circuits using common logic elements. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
MATH 1431 | Technical Mathematics for Electronics This course covers methods for solving systems of linear equations with application to DC networks. Logarithmic and exponential functions and their application to electric transients, decibels and linearization of power and exponential relationships are discussed. Students will learn about trigonometric functions, circular motion, graphing sinusoidal functions and addition of sinusoids. In addition, students will carry out the representation and arithmetic of complex numbers with application to AC circuit analysis. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
PHYS 1143 | Physics for Electronics 1 This course is a general physics course that emphasizes topics of special relevance to electronics. Topics covered include kinematics and dynamics of translational and rotational motion, conservation of energy, stress and strain of materials and simple harmonic motion. Calculus terminology and concepts will be introduced in select topics. The laboratory exercises stress measurement, data analysis, and experimental techniques as they relate to the lecture material. Technological applications are identified throughout the course. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
Level 2 (19 weeks) | Credits
Term A (15 weeks)
ELEX 2105 | Circuit Analysis 2 This course is an introduction to the behavior of electrical circuits and networks when driven by single and multiple alternating current (AC) sources. Topics include the sine wave (average and effective values); power and power factor; resistance, capacitance and inductance as elements in AC circuits; phasor diagrams; analysis of AC circuits with complex algebra; resonance and resonant circuits; high pass and low pass filters; the application of circuit laws and theorems to AC circuits; and coupled circuits. The circuit theory is verified using multimeters, wattmeters, function generators, dual trace oscilloscopes and circuit simulation software. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 2117 | Digital Techniques 2 This course builds on the knowledge gained in ELEX 1117. Specifically students will study and analyze: sequential logic devices; latches; synchronous counters; count decoders and display systems; shift registers; serial and parallel data manipulation circuits; parallel data paths; state diagrams and state machines to design sequential logic systems. An HDL programming language will be introduced and used to solve design problems. Graphical and HDL design/simulation software development tools will be used in the laboratory. Hardware development/analysis tools will consist of a PLD or FPGA development board, a prototype board (with various DIP LSI/MSI ICs), a DMM and an oscilloscope in the laboratory. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in ELEX 1117 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 2120 | Electronic Circuits 1 This is an introductory electronic circuit course that provides the foundation for subsequent electronics courses. The course explains how electronic circuits work and how to analyze, design, modify and combine them to perform complex functions. Laboratory work emphasizes logical circuit layout and wiring and the use of common test equipment to analyze and troubleshoot electronic circuits. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 6.0
ELEX 2125 | C Programming for Electronics This course provides an introduction to C programming and software development. The course focuses on structured program development using the C language. Students will also learn to document code, debug programs and to utilize software libraries. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MATH 2431 | Calculus for Electronics This course covers differentiation and integration with applications to electronics, electrical engineering and physics. The derivative and rules of differentiation are discussed. Differentiation of polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, logarithmic, composite and implicit functions is considered. The rules of differentiation are applied to related rate problems, max/min problems, differentials and the Taylor series. Indefinite and definite integrals are introduced and applied to circuit problems and to calculations of area, average value and rms value. Various analytical and numerical integration techniques, including change of variables, integration by parts, table lookup, numerical integration and partial fractions, are addressed. The trigonometric Fourier series and line spectrum are discussed. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
PHYS 2143 | Physics for Electronics 2 This course builds on the knowledge gained in PHYS 1143. Topics include electrostatics, elementary electrodynamics, magnetism, magnetic materials, electromagnetic induction, electromagnetic waves, diffraction and interference of waves, heat and thermal energy, and geometric optics. Calculus will be introduced in select topics. The accompanying laboratory program emphasizes measurement, data analysis, and experimental techniques as they relate to lecture materials. Technological applications are identified throughout the course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in PHYS 1143 course outline | 5.0
and
Term B (4 weeks)
COMM 1243 | Technical Documentation In this course students write an operating manual, formatted as a formal report, incorporating technical descriptions, instructions, and graphics. Prerequisite(s): COMM 1143 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 1.0
ELEX 1101 | Introduction to Codes and Standards This course introduces the relevant codes, standards and practices associated with electrical technologists and engineers. Students will learn the importance of these codes and understand the regulatory bodies that govern the practice of engineers and technologists. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.0
ELEX 1103 | Introductory Networking This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of data communication and networking. Topics include the physical characteristics of wired, fiber-optic and wireless media, basic Local Area Network (LAN) topologies, network interface controllers, Internet Protocol (IP) addressing, basic switches and routers and the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model for communication systems. Students will also learn basic troubleshooting techniques. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
ELEX 1104 | Engineering Spreadsheets This course provides an introduction to organizing and formatting information with spreadsheet software including the use of macros.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
Level 3 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHSC 3342 | Industrial Process Fundamentals Before suitable measurement and process control strategies can be designed and implemented, sufficient knowledge of the common principles governing processes is required. CHSC 3342 fills this requirement by introducing students to “Thermal Fluid Sciences”. The basic principles of fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and heat transfer are presented along with examples of the application of these principles in real-world engineering, such as pump sizing and selection, heat losses from curved and flat surfaces, heat exchanger design and calculation of heat duties. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 2431 and 50% in PHYS 2143 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 3210 | Sensors for Measurement and Control This course introduces the student to the principles and techniques used in the industrial measurement of pressure, level, temperature, strain and humidity. Topics include pressure and level transmitters, temperature transducers, and strain gauges. Labs will apply the principles of the above topics and the latest in smart transmitter technology to various industrial and commercial applications. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2105 and MATH 2431 and PHYS 2143 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 3215 | Process Control Devices and Techniques This course examines the principles and practices used in the design and application of basic industrial process control systems. Topics include automatic process control principles; single loop feedback controller design; principles of electronic, pneumatic and hydraulic devices that are incorporated into transmitters, signal converters, positioners and power amplifiers; control valve specification and sizing. Practical experiments support the theory and illustrate the differences and limitations when applied to (laboratory scaled) industrial processes. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2120 and ELEX 3210 † and MATH 2431 and PHYS 2143 ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 3230 | PLCs and VFDs for Process Control This course introduces students to three phase power systems and the electrical equipment typically found in industrial and commercial environments and examines the application of programmable control devices to industrial automation. The course covers the following topics: three phase power systems, power factor and power quality, transformer operation and typical configurations, circuit protection devices, AC motor operation and analysis, motor controls and Motor Control Centers (MCCs), and variable frequency drives (VFDs), interlock and sequence control systems, and PLC selection, specification and configuration. Project work involves the design and implementation of various control solutions including a complete working system using typical industrial programmable logic controllers. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2105 and ELEX 2117 and ELEX 3210* (* may be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 3305 | Microcontroller Systems Using a simple microcontroller system as a vehicle, this course introduces the single-chip microcontroller as a fundamental component of modern control and data acquisition systems. Course topics include: memory technologies; CPU architecture; low-level programming and instruction execution; general purpose (digital) input and output; interrupts; analog to digital converters; timers; pulse-width modulation; and serial communications. A PC-based Integrated Development Environment (IDE) and a single board microcontroller system are used. A strong emphasis is placed on software design and debugging methods. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 2117 and 50% in ELEX 2125 course outline | 6.0
MATH 3433 | Transform Calculus and Statistics for Electronics This course covers basic concepts of ordinary differential equations, Laplace transforms and introductory probability and statistics. Topics covered throughout will use examples relevant to electronics technology. Ordinary differential equations topic coverage includes: first and second order ordinary linear differential equations and initial value problems. Laplace transform topic coverage includes: step and impulse functions, Laplace transforms of functions and mathematical operations, inverse Laplace transforms, solution of differential equations using Laplace transforms, circuit analysis in the s-domain, transfer functions and pole-zero plots. Probability and statistics coverage includes: descriptive statistics and data presentation, probability, probability distributions and linear regression. Prerequisite(s): MATH 2431 course outline | 4.0
Level 4 (19 weeks) | Credits
Term A (15 weeks)
COMM 2443 | Technical Communication 2 for Electrical and Computer Engineering In this course, students will apply the skills learned in COMM 1143 and COMM 1243 to prepare a professional career search package, practice interviewing skills, and write informal technical reports, including a proposal. As well, they will prepare a formal technical report which presents and analyses the findings of a major project in their technology option. They will also present this information and analysis in an effective oral presentation. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4215 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) COMM 1243 and ELEX 4215** or ELEX 4440** or ELEX 4560** (**must be taken concurrently) course outline | 3.0
ELEX 0404 | Technologist Code of Ethics This course provides an introduction of the ASTT Code of Ethics & Practice Guidelines. Its aim is to familiarize the student with principles that inform professional conduct in the field of applied science technology. The course is a single two-hour lecture per term, followed by one hour of online review and testing. The aim of the online quiz is to provide evidence of the student's familiarity with the ASTT Code of Ethics. This course is a requirement for graduation. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline
ELEX 4206 | Industrial Data Communications ​This course provides a foundation in industrial data communications as it relates to industrial control systems (ICS). The first half of this course builds on outcomes in ELEX 1103 for TCP/IP over Ethernet and is based on the concepts, media and topologies, and installation and configuration domains of industrial networks. The second half of this course studies specific industrial networks and fieldbuses with an emphasis on their application in ICS and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 1103 and ELEX 2117 and ELEX 3215 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 4210 | Analysers for Process Automation This course covers a number of techniques used in the area of industrial process measurement applications. Flow measuring devices such as head devices, turbine, vortex, ultrasonic, magnetic and coriolis flowmeters are investigated. Analytical techniques to measure gas composition (including zirconium oxide oxygen analysis and gas chromatography), pH, conductivity and turbidity are investigated. Techniques to measure liquid density are discussed. In the lab, students will analyze and calibrate typical industrial measuring devices. Prerequisite(s): CHSC 3342 and ELEX 3210 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 4215 | Strategies for Industrial Process Control This course examines the practical application of common control systems to industrial processes. Industrial control loop components and processes are studied and basic operating characteristics identified. Control valve sizing and operating characteristics (static and dynamic response) are studied. Control loop stability based on a first order plus dead time model is analyzed using Bode plots. Control strategies are discussed for a variety of processes including heat exchangers, boiler systems, level applications, evaporators and pH systems. These processes are used to demonstrate the application of the most common multi-input, single output (MISO) control strategies including cascade, feedforward, ratio, and relevant selective systems. Prerequisite(s): CHSC 3342 and MATH 3343 and ELEX 3215 and ELEX 4210 † ( † may be taken concurrently) COMM 2443 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 4221 | Distributed Control Systems ​This course examines the application of distributed control systems (DCS) to industrial automation. Control system architectures are examined with reference to commercially available systems. Programming languages conforming to the IEC-61131-3 standard are reviewed and FBDs, SFCs and structured text programming languages are used in the design configurations. A modern distributed control system platform (DeltaV) and its configuration are studied and control systems are implemented and tested using simulation. Graphical user interface design criteria and configuration are investigated and appropriate graphical user interfaces are designed and used to interface to the control system and simulations. Interlocks, permissives and sequence control are also incorporated into control project designs. Safety instrumented systems and industrial data communication standards and their application to plant wide automation are examined as time permits. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4210 † and ELEX 4215 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 4.0
ELEX 4226 | Instrumentation Engineering & Projects This course examines process control system design and documentation techniques including computer-aided design. Current ISA, SAMA and ASME symbologies are used in the preparation of control system documents such as process and instrument drawings, loop diagrams, functional diagrams and specification sheets. The role of these documents in the management of instrument projects is also examined and CAD systems are used for their preparation. The basics of project management is introduced. Project work involves all aspects of control system design from concept to evaluation. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4210 † and ELEX 4215 † and ELEX 4221 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 4.0
and
Term B (4 weeks)
ELEX 3201 | Current Practices in A&I This course is a showcase of technical topics in the field of automation, instrumentation and industrial control. The rapid evolution of technology in this field requires that students have the skills to adapt. This course provides students the opportunity to explore emerging technologies in automation and instrumentation. The delivery format is a combination of short seminars presented by faculty and leading experts from industry in conjunction with complementary lab work. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3210 and ELEX 3215 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 3203 | Canadian Electrical Code This course is primarily focused on the most recent Canadian Electrical Code (CEC) as amended for the Province of British Columbia and the safe work practices specified by the CSA Z462 Workplace Electrical Safety standard. The emphasis will be on identifying key elements of the Canadian Electrical Code and learning how to properly interpret and implement the requirements defined by the Code and the required safe work practices needed to comply with the CSA Z462 standard. The Safety Standards Act of BC, the Safety Standards General Regulations, the Electrical Safety Regulation and the BC Safety Authority Directives will also be reviewed and referenced in context. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 1101 and ELEX 3210 and ELEX 3215 course outline | 2.0
ELEX 3204 | Industrial Systems and Safety ​This course will expose students to a relevant selection of important topics in industrial systems and safety (both personal and industrial safety). Topics will vary based on priorities identified from related industry publications, employers of A&I graduates and the program's advisory committee. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2105 course outline | 2.0
January intake: Level 1 (19 weeks) | Credits
Term A (15 weeks)
COMM 1143 | Technical Communications 1 for Electrical and Computer Engineering This course emphasizes clear, correct, concise technical communication in the electronics field. Students learn how to organize technical information, write routine emails and letters, write a resume and application letter for co-op or a summer job in the field, and give short, informative presentations to small groups. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ELEX 0304 | Learning Skills for Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology This is a six hour, non-credit course designed to help students cope with the extensive workload and provide additional information about the Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. Topics covered include introduction to technology, teamwork, time management, study skills, safety, the coop program, and diploma and degree options. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline
ELEX 1105 | Circuit Analysis 1 This course covers the methods for investigating the behavior of direct current (dc) circuits whose circuit quantities (voltage, current) do not vary with time. The fundamental circuit laws developed by Kirchhoff and Ohm are applied to circuit analyses. Networks comprised of series, parallel, series/parallel and non-series/parallel interconnected branches are analyzed. Specialized circuit analysis methods: Thévenin’s, Norton’s, maximum power transfer, source transformation and superposition are applied to circuits. The application of nodal and mesh analyses to determine all voltages and currents in a circuit is developed. Laboratory sessions relate theory to practice. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
ELEX 1113 | Electronic Fabrication Tools and Techniques This course introduces the engineering problem solving techniques and the processes for the design and manufacture of electronic appliances. The design of a printed circuit board using Electronic Design Automation is undertaken. Basic electrical and mechanical hand assembly methods including: component and wire soldering, component mounting, interconnect wiring, and cable harnessing are used to construct a DC Power Supply. Functional testing is performed to demonstrate the completed unit complies with its product specifications.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
ELEX 1117 | Digital Techniques 1 This course describes why digital logic circuits have become ubiquitous, and introduces approaches to methodical design of such circuits. Decimal, Hexadecimal, and Binary number systems are described, and techniques are introduced for converting from one system to another. Binary codes for representing numerical and alphanumerical information are discussed. Basic definitions and common elements of binary logic systems are developed. Common representations of digital logic functions and circuits are introduced, including truth tables, waveform representations, schematics, distinctive symbols and Boolean expressions. Digital logic circuits using switches, LEDs and electronic gates are discussed. Logic sources are defined and interfaced to combinational logic circuits. Steady-state design characteristics of digital Integrated Circuits (IC’s) are reviewed using data sheets and this information is used to interface to real life devices. Simulation software is introduced and used to investigate logic circuits. Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs) are discussed, and systems for programming of such devices are introduced. The lecture material is reinforced by a series of lab assignments that develop skills in designing and creating prototype circuits using common logic elements. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
MATH 1431 | Technical Mathematics for Electronics This course covers methods for solving systems of linear equations with application to DC networks. Logarithmic and exponential functions and their application to electric transients, decibels and linearization of power and exponential relationships are discussed. Students will learn about trigonometric functions, circular motion, graphing sinusoidal functions and addition of sinusoids. In addition, students will carry out the representation and arithmetic of complex numbers with application to AC circuit analysis. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
PHYS 1143 | Physics for Electronics 1 This course is a general physics course that emphasizes topics of special relevance to electronics. Topics covered include kinematics and dynamics of translational and rotational motion, conservation of energy, stress and strain of materials and simple harmonic motion. Calculus terminology and concepts will be introduced in select topics. The laboratory exercises stress measurement, data analysis, and experimental techniques as they relate to the lecture material. Technological applications are identified throughout the course. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
and
Term B (4 weeks)
COMM 1243 | Technical Documentation In this course students write an operating manual, formatted as a formal report, incorporating technical descriptions, instructions, and graphics. Prerequisite(s): COMM 1143 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 1.0
ELEX 1101 | Introduction to Codes and Standards This course introduces the relevant codes, standards and practices associated with electrical technologists and engineers. Students will learn the importance of these codes and understand the regulatory bodies that govern the practice of engineers and technologists. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.0
ELEX 1103 | Introductory Networking This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of data communication and networking. Topics include the physical characteristics of wired, fiber-optic and wireless media, basic Local Area Network (LAN) topologies, network interface controllers, Internet Protocol (IP) addressing, basic switches and routers and the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model for communication systems. Students will also learn basic troubleshooting techniques. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
ELEX 1104 | Engineering Spreadsheets This course provides an introduction to organizing and formatting information with spreadsheet software including the use of macros.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
Level 2 (15 weeks) | Credits
ELEX 2105 | Circuit Analysis 2 This course is an introduction to the behavior of electrical circuits and networks when driven by single and multiple alternating current (AC) sources. Topics include the sine wave (average and effective values); power and power factor; resistance, capacitance and inductance as elements in AC circuits; phasor diagrams; analysis of AC circuits with complex algebra; resonance and resonant circuits; high pass and low pass filters; the application of circuit laws and theorems to AC circuits; and coupled circuits. The circuit theory is verified using multimeters, wattmeters, function generators, dual trace oscilloscopes and circuit simulation software. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 2117 | Digital Techniques 2 This course builds on the knowledge gained in ELEX 1117. Specifically students will study and analyze: sequential logic devices; latches; synchronous counters; count decoders and display systems; shift registers; serial and parallel data manipulation circuits; parallel data paths; state diagrams and state machines to design sequential logic systems. An HDL programming language will be introduced and used to solve design problems. Graphical and HDL design/simulation software development tools will be used in the laboratory. Hardware development/analysis tools will consist of a PLD or FPGA development board, a prototype board (with various DIP LSI/MSI ICs), a DMM and an oscilloscope in the laboratory. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in ELEX 1117 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 2120 | Electronic Circuits 1 This is an introductory electronic circuit course that provides the foundation for subsequent electronics courses. The course explains how electronic circuits work and how to analyze, design, modify and combine them to perform complex functions. Laboratory work emphasizes logical circuit layout and wiring and the use of common test equipment to analyze and troubleshoot electronic circuits. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 6.0
ELEX 2125 | C Programming for Electronics This course provides an introduction to C programming and software development. The course focuses on structured program development using the C language. Students will also learn to document code, debug programs and to utilize software libraries. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MATH 2431 | Calculus for Electronics This course covers differentiation and integration with applications to electronics, electrical engineering and physics. The derivative and rules of differentiation are discussed. Differentiation of polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, logarithmic, composite and implicit functions is considered. The rules of differentiation are applied to related rate problems, max/min problems, differentials and the Taylor series. Indefinite and definite integrals are introduced and applied to circuit problems and to calculations of area, average value and rms value. Various analytical and numerical integration techniques, including change of variables, integration by parts, table lookup, numerical integration and partial fractions, are addressed. The trigonometric Fourier series and line spectrum are discussed. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
PHYS 2143 | Physics for Electronics 2 This course builds on the knowledge gained in PHYS 1143. Topics include electrostatics, elementary electrodynamics, magnetism, magnetic materials, electromagnetic induction, electromagnetic waves, diffraction and interference of waves, heat and thermal energy, and geometric optics. Calculus will be introduced in select topics. The accompanying laboratory program emphasizes measurement, data analysis, and experimental techniques as they relate to lecture materials. Technological applications are identified throughout the course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in PHYS 1143 course outline | 5.0
Level 3 (19 weeks) | Credits
Term A (15 weeks)
CHSC 3342 | Industrial Process Fundamentals Before suitable measurement and process control strategies can be designed and implemented, sufficient knowledge of the common principles governing processes is required. CHSC 3342 fills this requirement by introducing students to “Thermal Fluid Sciences”. The basic principles of fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and heat transfer are presented along with examples of the application of these principles in real-world engineering, such as pump sizing and selection, heat losses from curved and flat surfaces, heat exchanger design and calculation of heat duties. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 2431 and 50% in PHYS 2143 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 3210 | Sensors for Measurement and Control This course introduces the student to the principles and techniques used in the industrial measurement of pressure, level, temperature, strain and humidity. Topics include pressure and level transmitters, temperature transducers, and strain gauges. Labs will apply the principles of the above topics and the latest in smart transmitter technology to various industrial and commercial applications. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2105 and MATH 2431 and PHYS 2143 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 3215 | Process Control Devices and Techniques This course examines the principles and practices used in the design and application of basic industrial process control systems. Topics include automatic process control principles; single loop feedback controller design; principles of electronic, pneumatic and hydraulic devices that are incorporated into transmitters, signal converters, positioners and power amplifiers; control valve specification and sizing. Practical experiments support the theory and illustrate the differences and limitations when applied to (laboratory scaled) industrial processes. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2120 and ELEX 3210 † and MATH 2431 and PHYS 2143 ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 3230 | PLCs and VFDs for Process Control This course introduces students to three phase power systems and the electrical equipment typically found in industrial and commercial environments and examines the application of programmable control devices to industrial automation. The course covers the following topics: three phase power systems, power factor and power quality, transformer operation and typical configurations, circuit protection devices, AC motor operation and analysis, motor controls and Motor Control Centers (MCCs), and variable frequency drives (VFDs), interlock and sequence control systems, and PLC selection, specification and configuration. Project work involves the design and implementation of various control solutions including a complete working system using typical industrial programmable logic controllers. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2105 and ELEX 2117 and ELEX 3210* (* may be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 3305 | Microcontroller Systems Using a simple microcontroller system as a vehicle, this course introduces the single-chip microcontroller as a fundamental component of modern control and data acquisition systems. Course topics include: memory technologies; CPU architecture; low-level programming and instruction execution; general purpose (digital) input and output; interrupts; analog to digital converters; timers; pulse-width modulation; and serial communications. A PC-based Integrated Development Environment (IDE) and a single board microcontroller system are used. A strong emphasis is placed on software design and debugging methods. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 2117 and 50% in ELEX 2125 course outline | 6.0
MATH 3433 | Transform Calculus and Statistics for Electronics This course covers basic concepts of ordinary differential equations, Laplace transforms and introductory probability and statistics. Topics covered throughout will use examples relevant to electronics technology. Ordinary differential equations topic coverage includes: first and second order ordinary linear differential equations and initial value problems. Laplace transform topic coverage includes: step and impulse functions, Laplace transforms of functions and mathematical operations, inverse Laplace transforms, solution of differential equations using Laplace transforms, circuit analysis in the s-domain, transfer functions and pole-zero plots. Probability and statistics coverage includes: descriptive statistics and data presentation, probability, probability distributions and linear regression. Prerequisite(s): MATH 2431 course outline | 4.0
and
Term B (4 weeks)
ELEX 3201 | Current Practices in A&I This course is a showcase of technical topics in the field of automation, instrumentation and industrial control. The rapid evolution of technology in this field requires that students have the skills to adapt. This course provides students the opportunity to explore emerging technologies in automation and instrumentation. The delivery format is a combination of short seminars presented by faculty and leading experts from industry in conjunction with complementary lab work. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3210 and ELEX 3215 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 3203 | Canadian Electrical Code This course is primarily focused on the most recent Canadian Electrical Code (CEC) as amended for the Province of British Columbia and the safe work practices specified by the CSA Z462 Workplace Electrical Safety standard. The emphasis will be on identifying key elements of the Canadian Electrical Code and learning how to properly interpret and implement the requirements defined by the Code and the required safe work practices needed to comply with the CSA Z462 standard. The Safety Standards Act of BC, the Safety Standards General Regulations, the Electrical Safety Regulation and the BC Safety Authority Directives will also be reviewed and referenced in context. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 1101 and ELEX 3210 and ELEX 3215 course outline | 2.0
ELEX 3204 | Industrial Systems and Safety ​This course will expose students to a relevant selection of important topics in industrial systems and safety (both personal and industrial safety). Topics will vary based on priorities identified from related industry publications, employers of A&I graduates and the program's advisory committee. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2105 course outline | 2.0
Level 4 (15 weeks) | Credits
COMM 2443 | Technical Communication 2 for Electrical and Computer Engineering In this course, students will apply the skills learned in COMM 1143 and COMM 1243 to prepare a professional career search package, practice interviewing skills, and write informal technical reports, including a proposal. As well, they will prepare a formal technical report which presents and analyses the findings of a major project in their technology option. They will also present this information and analysis in an effective oral presentation. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4215 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) COMM 1243 and ELEX 4215** or ELEX 4440** or ELEX 4560** (**must be taken concurrently) course outline | 3.0
ELEX 0404 | Technologist Code of Ethics This course provides an introduction of the ASTT Code of Ethics & Practice Guidelines. Its aim is to familiarize the student with principles that inform professional conduct in the field of applied science technology. The course is a single two-hour lecture per term, followed by one hour of online review and testing. The aim of the online quiz is to provide evidence of the student's familiarity with the ASTT Code of Ethics. This course is a requirement for graduation. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline
ELEX 4206 | Industrial Data Communications ​This course provides a foundation in industrial data communications as it relates to industrial control systems (ICS). The first half of this course builds on outcomes in ELEX 1103 for TCP/IP over Ethernet and is based on the concepts, media and topologies, and installation and configuration domains of industrial networks. The second half of this course studies specific industrial networks and fieldbuses with an emphasis on their application in ICS and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 1103 and ELEX 2117 and ELEX 3215 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 4210 | Analysers for Process Automation This course covers a number of techniques used in the area of industrial process measurement applications. Flow measuring devices such as head devices, turbine, vortex, ultrasonic, magnetic and coriolis flowmeters are investigated. Analytical techniques to measure gas composition (including zirconium oxide oxygen analysis and gas chromatography), pH, conductivity and turbidity are investigated. Techniques to measure liquid density are discussed. In the lab, students will analyze and calibrate typical industrial measuring devices. Prerequisite(s): CHSC 3342 and ELEX 3210 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 4215 | Strategies for Industrial Process Control This course examines the practical application of common control systems to industrial processes. Industrial control loop components and processes are studied and basic operating characteristics identified. Control valve sizing and operating characteristics (static and dynamic response) are studied. Control loop stability based on a first order plus dead time model is analyzed using Bode plots. Control strategies are discussed for a variety of processes including heat exchangers, boiler systems, level applications, evaporators and pH systems. These processes are used to demonstrate the application of the most common multi-input, single output (MISO) control strategies including cascade, feedforward, ratio, and relevant selective systems. Prerequisite(s): CHSC 3342 and MATH 3343 and ELEX 3215 and ELEX 4210 † ( † may be taken concurrently) COMM 2443 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 4221 | Distributed Control Systems ​This course examines the application of distributed control systems (DCS) to industrial automation. Control system architectures are examined with reference to commercially available systems. Programming languages conforming to the IEC-61131-3 standard are reviewed and FBDs, SFCs and structured text programming languages are used in the design configurations. A modern distributed control system platform (DeltaV) and its configuration are studied and control systems are implemented and tested using simulation. Graphical user interface design criteria and configuration are investigated and appropriate graphical user interfaces are designed and used to interface to the control system and simulations. Interlocks, permissives and sequence control are also incorporated into control project designs. Safety instrumented systems and industrial data communication standards and their application to plant wide automation are examined as time permits. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4210 † and ELEX 4215 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 4.0
ELEX 4226 | Instrumentation Engineering & Projects This course examines process control system design and documentation techniques including computer-aided design. Current ISA, SAMA and ASME symbologies are used in the preparation of control system documents such as process and instrument drawings, loop diagrams, functional diagrams and specification sheets. The role of these documents in the management of instrument projects is also examined and CAD systems are used for their preparation. The basics of project management is introduced. Project work involves all aspects of control system design from concept to evaluation. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4210 † and ELEX 4215 † and ELEX 4221 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 4.0
Co-op Work Term Courses (Optional) | Credits
ELEX 2992 | Cooperative Education Workterm 1 Co-op work terms are paid temporary jobs where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Electrical and Computer Engineering. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): Completed ECET first year course outline | 20.0
or
ELEX 2993 | Cooperative Education Workterm 1 Co-op work terms are paid temporary jobs where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Electrical and Computer Engineering. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): Completed ECET year one course outline | 15.0
ELEX 3992 | Cooperative Education Workterm 2 Co-op work terms are paid temporary jobs where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Electrical and Computer Engineering. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2992 or ELEX 2993 course outline | 20.0
or
ELEX 3993 | Cooperative Education Workterm 2 Co-op work terms are paid temporary jobs where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Electrical and Computer Engineering. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2992 or ELEX 2993 course outline | 15.0
ELEX 4992 | Cooperative Education Workterm 3 Co-op work terms are paid temporary jobs where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Electrical and Computer Engineering. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3992 or ELEX 3993 course outline | 20.0
or
ELEX 4993 | Cooperative Education Workterm 3 Co-op work terms are paid temporary jobs where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Electrical and Computer Engineering. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3992 or ELEX 3993 course outline | 15.0
ELEX 5992 | Cooperative Education Workterm 4 Co-op work terms are paid temporary jobs where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Electrical and Computer Engineering. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4992 or ELEX 4993 course outline | 20.0
or
ELEX 5993 | Cooperative Education Workterm 4 Co-op work terms are paid temporary jobs where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Electrical and Computer Engineering. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4992 or ELEX 4993 course outline | 15.0
Total Credits: | 132.5
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
### How will I learn?
In all of our technology diploma programs you will spend an average of 30 hours per week in lectures and labs, split approximately 50/50. This balanced approach gives you time to apply the theory in a practical lab environment. In addition, you should expect an additional 30 hours per week preparing for labs, completing assignments and studying. If you need to work while going to school, the majority of our courses are offered in both the September and January terms so that you can tailor your school workload to your other commitments.
We have 21 well equipped labs to support the practical aspect of your education. In almost every lab each student has their own individual work station.
In this program, your focus will be to learn to design and maintain systems that measure and control – systems that are widely used in areas as diverse as industrial manufacturing, material handling processes, domestic heating and cooling operations and even the Space Shuttle.
### Program length
Two years, full-time, beginning in September and January each year.
This program is designed to be completed over 2 years in 4 terms. However, BCIT recognizes that not all students will be successful taking a full courseload and will accommodate students by guiding them through a modified registration path once accepted into the program. A modified path will impact the program length and increase the overall cost of the program.
### Accreditation
Students may apply for student membership with the Applied Science Technologists and Technicians of British Columbia (ASTTBC). Graduates may apply to ASTTBC for registration as an Applied Science Technologist (AScT).
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
The Automation and Instrumentation option has two intakes per year, in September and January .
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
### Continue your education
Graduates of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology (ECET) program may pursue the following degrees at BCIT:
- Bachelor of Technology in Electronics : This part-time degree program is designed for ECET diploma graduates who wish to pursue a degree while working full-time in the electrical, electronics, automation and telecommunications industries.
- Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering : This full-time degree program shares a common first year with the ECET diploma program.
ECET diploma graduates can also explore external bridging programs, which allow graduates to enter the third-year of engineering programs at the University of Victoria or Lakehead University. Alternatively, transfer credit to UBC and SFU degree programs is available on an individual basis.
### Co-operative education
Co-operative education is an optional part of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology programs. Students who successfully complete a minimum of two co-op terms receive a co-operative education designation on their diploma.
During a co-op term, you will have a full-time paid position with an employer in the electronics industry for a period of 15 to 20 weeks. You must complete Level 2 of the program before taking a co-op term, and co-op terms may be taken consecutively.
The industrial experience you will gain in the co-op component of the program will give you an added advantage in securing a position after graduation. You are encouraged, but not required, to participate in co-operative education.
For more information, please visit the Centre for Workplace Education – BCIT .
## Graduating & Jobs
### An edge in the job market
A BCIT diploma shows potential employers that you are accomplished, focused, and serious about your chosen career path. Our programs and courses provide both fundamental theoretical knowledge and hands-on practical skills to help you “hit the ground running” in a new job. Graduates say that BCIT helped them fully prepare for employment.
### Job opportunities
Automation and Instrumentation offers challenging and fulfilling careers for engineering technologists in design, research and development, technical support and technical sales.
Graduates of this program work in industries such as consulting engineering; automation equipment sales and support; resource industries such as petrochemical, pulp and paper, wood processing and mining; building automation; food processing; and materials handing and manufacturing. They are involved in the design, application and support of electronic and computer-based automation systems. These specialists use multi-disciplinary skills to interface and network computers and electronic equipment to pneumatic, hydraulic, mechanical and process systems. Companies that have hired graduates of our program are:
- Ainsworth
- Altec Integrated Solutions
- AMEC
- Argus Controls
- Ausenco Sandwell
- BBA Engineering Consultants
- BC Hydro
- Canfor
- CG Industrial
- Cogent Industrial Technologies
- Control Solutions
- Corix Control Solutions
- Eaton Cutler Hammer
- Fluor
- Matrikon
- Metro Vancouver
- Rio Tinto
- Solaris Management Consultants
- Spartan Controls
- Tetra Tech
### Professional associations
Students are encouraged to join the International Society of Automation (ISA) to further their connection to the instrumentation community.
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology (Automation and Instrumentation Option)
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
The Automation and Instrumentation program is supported by a team of committed educators, staff and industry advisors who work hard for students’ success.
### Mentoring students to explore, discover and innovate
David’s fascinating career includes eight years of service to the Canadian Security Intelligence Service. In September 2007, David travelled to Russia to present a research paper on a mathematical model used to predict the time it will take a hacker to compromise a process control network.
### Faculty
Gurminder Grewal , MEng Option Head, Automation and Instrumentation Tel: 604-412-7579 Email: ggrewal45@bcit.ca
Sadegh Abbasian , PhD Tel: 604-456-1266 Email: Sadegh_Abbasian@bcit.ca
Ali Behradkia , MSc Tel: 604-412-7578 Email: Ali_Behradkia@bcit.ca
Ed Casas , PhD, P.Eng. Tel: 604-432-8936 Email: Eduardo_Casas@bcit.ca
Bob Gill , MEng, P.Eng. Option Head, Telecommunications and Networks Tel: 604-412-7582 Email: Bob_Gill@bcit.ca
Chamandeep Kaur , PhD. Tel: 604-454-2291 Email: Chamandeep_Kaur@bcit.ca
Joselito Laguio , MEng, P.Eng. Tel: 604-453-4046 Email: Joselito_Laguio@bcit.ca
William (Bill) Maki , BEng, P.Eng. Tel: 604-412-7590 Email: Bill_Maki@bcit.ca
Hassan Saberi , MSc, P.Eng. Tel: 604 412-8388 Email: hsaberi@bcit.ca
Chris Siu , MSEE, P.Eng. Tel: 604-456-8013 Email: Christopher_Siu@bcit.ca
Kulwinderjeet Sivia , MTech, P.Eng. First Year Student Advisor Tel: 604-412-7587 Email: ksivia1@bcit.ca
Remya Sreenath , MEng, P.Eng. Program Head, ECET Tel: 604-412-7576 Email: rsreenath@bcit.ca
Ron Stewart , DipIT, MEng Tel: 604-432-8933 Email: rstewart67@bcit.ca
Robert Trost , MEng, P.Eng. Tel: 604-432-8933 Email: Robert_Trost@bcit.ca
Reza Vahidnia , PhD, P.Eng. (on leave)
### Assistant instructors
Chris Goetz , DipIT Tel: 604-456-1173 Email: Chris_Goetz@bcit.ca
Steven A. McClain , BTech, SMIEEE Tel: 604-412-7591 Email: smcclain@bcit.ca
Behrouz Sattari , MEng Tel: 604-412-7588 Email: bsattari@bcit.ca
Rudymar Tolentino , BSc Tel: 604-432-8251 Email: Rudymar_Tolentino@bcit.ca
Jessica Wilson , BA Tel: 604-412-7692 Email: Jessica_Wilson@bcit.ca
### Technical staff
Ahmad Bagjery, BSc Tel: 604-456-8104 Email: Ahmad_Bagjery@bcit.ca
### Staff
Viktoriia Kovalova , PhD, P.Eng. Associate Dean Tel: 604-432-8976 Email: Viktoriia_Kovalova@bcit.ca
Max Tyrsa Administrative Assistant Tel: 604-412-7731 Email: soe-eet_admin@bcit.ca
Gundula Minato Program Administrator Tel: 604-451-6892 Email: Gundi_Minato@bcit.ca
### Advisory committee
Katie Bramhall Parkland Refining (BC) Ltd.
Steve Egglestone ESC Automation
Alden Hagerty Spartan Controls
Matt Leemet Stantec
Harjog Mattu PE Tech Ltd.
Koji Otomo Metro Vancouver
Gregory Shrimpton Township of Langley
Mark Sim AWC Solutions
Paul Wessel Centrix Control Solutions
Donnelly Williams Garmendale Engineering
## Contact Us
### Spend-A-Day with us
Want to learn more about our program before you apply? Come spend-a-day with us. You’ll meet students and instructors, and get a hands-on feel for what the program is about.
If you have questions regarding the entrance requirements or the application process, read Common First Year [PDF] and then visit Admission & Registration .
If you want to discuss the program content in more detail, please contact:
Remya Sreenath , MEng, P.Eng. Program Head, Automation and Instrumentation Tel: 604-412-7576 Email: rsreenath@bcit.ca
Max Tyrsa Administrative Assistant Tel: 604-412-7731 Email: soe-eet_admin@bcit.ca
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
