URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/electrical-engineering-bachelor-of-engineering-full-time-8030beng/
Title: Electrical Engineering
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Electrical Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering Full-time School of Energy
## Overview
The Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering (BEng Electrical) is a four year program that prepares students for a professional career as an Electrical Engineer. Graduates gain a strong practical foundation in engineering theory, analysis, and design, as well as the critical thinking skills needed to be successful as an engineer.
Note: The September 2026 intake is now closed for new applications. Applications for the September 2027 intake will be accepted starting October 1, 2026.
Delivery: in person. See details .
### About the program
The BEng Electrical program shares first year with the Diploma of Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology (ECET) to provide you with options for your engineering education. After successful completion of the first year, you can choose to continue in a technology diploma path or compete for a seat in the engineering degree program. The engineering degree path requires an additional three years of study.
The BEng Electrical is recognized as a baccalaureate degree in British Columbia by the BC Ministry of Advanced Education and is nationally accredited by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB). The program encompasses a wide range of subjects designed to advance both your technical knowledge and your skills in communications, management and professional practice. A four month workplace education experience allows you to apply your developing skills prior to graduation. (See program details page for more information). In a capstone project that spans the final year, you will apply your knowledge to a complex “real world” engineering design challenge, often an industry-sponsored project .
For a comparison of the two degree programs offered by the Electrical and Computer Engineering department, please read our Frequently Asked Questions page.
### Who it’s for
This program is intended for those that are interested in finding solutions to complex problems across a range of industries and are looking to advance their technical knowledge.
### What grads can do
Electrical engineers are employed by electrical utilities, communications companies, manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment, computer manufacturers, government, consulting firms and a wide range of manufacturing, processing and transportation industries. They may work as employees, consultants or entrepreneurs. Graduates will be able to prepare design specifications, project reports, cost estimates and maintenance or operating standards.
You will learn practical applications of electrical engineering with a strong theoretical foundation from instructors with many years of industry experience. Our well-equipped labs support your development of hands-on practical skills.
- The faculty in our program are motivated teachers. They are focused on providing applied education and helping you to succeed. You have ample opportunity to interact with our instructors in both lectures and labs.
- You will gain from BCIT’s strong reputation in industry. BCIT grads find relevant jobs quickly, and have a reputation of being productive from day one. The B.Eng Electrical degree is built to achieve similar success.
Check out Alexander Jappy, a third year student in the Electrical Engineering Degree program:
## Entrance Requirements
### Spend-A-Day with us
Want to learn more about our program before you apply? Come spend-a-day with us. You’ll meet students and instructors, and get a hands-on feel for what the program is about.
### Application processing
This program is open to applications:
- October 1st* to May 1st* for the Fall (September) intake
This program has a common first year with the Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology program. All applicants must complete the first year of the ECET program before continuing to one of the two-year technologist diploma options (Automation, Telecom, or Power) or competing for the four-year Bachelor of Engineering degree program (which requires an additional 3 years of study). Entrance requirements for the first year are listed in the program entry page of any of the technology diploma options.
### Entrance requirements
Admission to this program is competitive. In 2022, BCIT admitted 1 in 2 applicants. Successful applicants from the BCIT ECET common first year had an average GPA above 85%, BCIT ECET Diploma applicants had an average GPA above 82%.
### Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology (ECET) students
Current ECET diploma students do not need to apply through the Admissions department. ECET students select their preferred path in the second term of first year and can select a diploma option or compete for the Electrical Engineering degree. Entry to the degree is competitive based on GPA. Students chosen for the degree path will be moved into the degree program.
Students who are offered a seat in the degree program and choose to decline will be required to compete for entry in a future term, if they still wish to pursue the program. This includes students who decline their seat to do a co-op work term.
### BCIT diploma graduates
Applicants that have previously completed the Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology, Mechatronics and Robotics, or Biomedical Engineering diplomas within the last five years are required to submit an application.
Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements
- Post-Secondary: one of the following from BCIT: Completion of all ECET first year diploma courses with a minimum average of 75% or ECET diploma (any option) with a minimum average of 70% or Mechatronics and Robotics diploma with a minimum average of 70% or Biomedical Engineering Technology * diploma with a minimum average of 70% *Applicants accepted from the Biomedical Engineering Technology diploma program require an additional physics course, which must be pre-approved by the Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) program area. For more information, please contact the program administrator .
Step 2: Department assessment
All applications will be reviewed by the program area after the application deadline. A decision will be made after the first week of June.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
The Bachelor of Engineering program includes a mandatory work term.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : The PGWP eligibility below applies to the Electrical Engineering Bachelor of Engineering and Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology Diploma programs.
The following currently meets the PGWP eligibility requirements based on study program - graduates with a bachelor’s degree and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP. There are no field of study requirements (CIP) for graduates with a bachelor’s degree:
- Electrical Engineering
The following currently meet the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and are eligible for students to apply for a PGWP:
- Automation and Instrumentation ( CIPC : 15.0303)
- Electrical Power and Industrial Control ( CIPC : 15.0303)
- Telecommunications and Networks ( CIPC : 15.0303)
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
First year of Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology (ECET) program has two intakes each year, in September and January.
The Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering (BEng) program only has one intake each year, in September.
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through re-admission . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success. However, acceptance is not guaranteed, and is dependent on available seats or clinical placements.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
### Re-admission
To apply for re-admission, you must have been previously registered in the program, completed some courses, and wish to re-enter the program.
Submit the Technology Re-admission Form [PDF] with your application.
Applications are accepted until May 1st (or next business day) for the following September term.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
Still have questions? Review the Admissions FAQ or contact Program Advising .
## Costs & Supplies
The information below will help you determine the cost of taking the program and assist you in developing a budget for your two years of study. If you have concerns about being able to afford the program, please visit Financial Aid to learn how you may benefit from financial assistance.
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
Year 1 - $2,060 ; Year 2 - $1,700 ; Year 3 - $1,750 ; Year 4 - $1,450 (General estimates only, subject to change)
Ownership of a personal computer is required and not included in the above costs.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### What is the workload like?
Our engineering program contains significant workload and contact hours with your instructors. There is an average of 30 hours per week of class time in first year and 25 hours per week in the remaining three years. You should expect to spend an additional 25 – 30 hours per week on your own, completing assignments, preparing for labs, working on projects and studying. In the final year you will be required to complete, with guidance from a faculty member, a significant year-long engineering project. This is intended to bring together a number of subject areas and acquaint you with “real world” engineering problems. In preceding years some of your courses will contain “course-based” projects to prepare you for your final endeavour.
Below you will find a term by term listing of the courses. Click on the title for a quick “drop-down” course description or on the link for a more complete course outline.
### Class hours
8:30 am - 5:30 pm
### Program matrix
September intake: Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
COMM 1143 | Technical Communications 1 for Electrical and Computer Engineering This course emphasizes clear, correct, concise technical communication in the electronics field. Students learn how to organize technical information, write routine emails and letters, write a resume and application letter for co-op or a summer job in the field, and give short, informative presentations to small groups. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ELEX 0304 | Learning Skills for Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology This is a six hour, non-credit course designed to help students cope with the extensive workload and provide additional information about the Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. Topics covered include introduction to technology, teamwork, time management, study skills, safety, the coop program, and diploma and degree options. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline
ELEX 1105 | Circuit Analysis 1 This course covers the methods for investigating the behavior of direct current (dc) circuits whose circuit quantities (voltage, current) do not vary with time. The fundamental circuit laws developed by Kirchhoff and Ohm are applied to circuit analyses. Networks comprised of series, parallel, series/parallel and non-series/parallel interconnected branches are analyzed. Specialized circuit analysis methods: Thévenin’s, Norton’s, maximum power transfer, source transformation and superposition are applied to circuits. The application of nodal and mesh analyses to determine all voltages and currents in a circuit is developed. Laboratory sessions relate theory to practice. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
ELEX 1113 | Electronic Fabrication Tools and Techniques This course introduces the engineering problem solving techniques and the processes for the design and manufacture of electronic appliances. The design of a printed circuit board using Electronic Design Automation is undertaken. Basic electrical and mechanical hand assembly methods including: component and wire soldering, component mounting, interconnect wiring, and cable harnessing are used to construct a DC Power Supply. Functional testing is performed to demonstrate the completed unit complies with its product specifications.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
ELEX 1117 | Digital Techniques 1 This course describes why digital logic circuits have become ubiquitous, and introduces approaches to methodical design of such circuits. Decimal, Hexadecimal, and Binary number systems are described, and techniques are introduced for converting from one system to another. Binary codes for representing numerical and alphanumerical information are discussed. Basic definitions and common elements of binary logic systems are developed. Common representations of digital logic functions and circuits are introduced, including truth tables, waveform representations, schematics, distinctive symbols and Boolean expressions. Digital logic circuits using switches, LEDs and electronic gates are discussed. Logic sources are defined and interfaced to combinational logic circuits. Steady-state design characteristics of digital Integrated Circuits (IC’s) are reviewed using data sheets and this information is used to interface to real life devices. Simulation software is introduced and used to investigate logic circuits. Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs) are discussed, and systems for programming of such devices are introduced. The lecture material is reinforced by a series of lab assignments that develop skills in designing and creating prototype circuits using common logic elements. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
MATH 1431 | Technical Mathematics for Electronics This course covers methods for solving systems of linear equations with application to DC networks. Logarithmic and exponential functions and their application to electric transients, decibels and linearization of power and exponential relationships are discussed. Students will learn about trigonometric functions, circular motion, graphing sinusoidal functions and addition of sinusoids. In addition, students will carry out the representation and arithmetic of complex numbers with application to AC circuit analysis. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
PHYS 1143 | Physics for Electronics 1 This course is a general physics course that emphasizes topics of special relevance to electronics. Topics covered include kinematics and dynamics of translational and rotational motion, conservation of energy, stress and strain of materials and simple harmonic motion. Calculus terminology and concepts will be introduced in select topics. The laboratory exercises stress measurement, data analysis, and experimental techniques as they relate to the lecture material. Technological applications are identified throughout the course. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
Level 2 (19 weeks) | Credits
Term A (15 weeks)
ELEX 2105 | Circuit Analysis 2 This course is an introduction to the behavior of electrical circuits and networks when driven by single and multiple alternating current (AC) sources. Topics include the sine wave (average and effective values); power and power factor; resistance, capacitance and inductance as elements in AC circuits; phasor diagrams; analysis of AC circuits with complex algebra; resonance and resonant circuits; high pass and low pass filters; the application of circuit laws and theorems to AC circuits; and coupled circuits. The circuit theory is verified using multimeters, wattmeters, function generators, dual trace oscilloscopes and circuit simulation software. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 2117 | Digital Techniques 2 This course builds on the knowledge gained in ELEX 1117. Specifically students will study and analyze: sequential logic devices; latches; synchronous counters; count decoders and display systems; shift registers; serial and parallel data manipulation circuits; parallel data paths; state diagrams and state machines to design sequential logic systems. An HDL programming language will be introduced and used to solve design problems. Graphical and HDL design/simulation software development tools will be used in the laboratory. Hardware development/analysis tools will consist of a PLD or FPGA development board, a prototype board (with various DIP LSI/MSI ICs), a DMM and an oscilloscope in the laboratory. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in ELEX 1117 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 2120 | Electronic Circuits 1 This is an introductory electronic circuit course that provides the foundation for subsequent electronics courses. The course explains how electronic circuits work and how to analyze, design, modify and combine them to perform complex functions. Laboratory work emphasizes logical circuit layout and wiring and the use of common test equipment to analyze and troubleshoot electronic circuits. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in ELEX 1105 and 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 6.0
ELEX 2125 | C Programming for Electronics This course provides an introduction to C programming and software development. The course focuses on structured program development using the C language. Students will also learn to document code, debug programs and to utilize software libraries. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MATH 2431 | Calculus for Electronics This course covers differentiation and integration with applications to electronics, electrical engineering and physics. The derivative and rules of differentiation are discussed. Differentiation of polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, logarithmic, composite and implicit functions is considered. The rules of differentiation are applied to related rate problems, max/min problems, differentials and the Taylor series. Indefinite and definite integrals are introduced and applied to circuit problems and to calculations of area, average value and rms value. Various analytical and numerical integration techniques, including change of variables, integration by parts, table lookup, numerical integration and partial fractions, are addressed. The trigonometric Fourier series and line spectrum are discussed. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1431 course outline | 5.0
PHYS 2143 | Physics for Electronics 2 This course builds on the knowledge gained in PHYS 1143. Topics include electrostatics, elementary electrodynamics, magnetism, magnetic materials, electromagnetic induction, electromagnetic waves, diffraction and interference of waves, heat and thermal energy, and geometric optics. Calculus will be introduced in select topics. The accompanying laboratory program emphasizes measurement, data analysis, and experimental techniques as they relate to lecture materials. Technological applications are identified throughout the course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in PHYS 1143 course outline | 5.0
and
Term B (4 weeks)
COMM 1243 | Technical Documentation In this course students write an operating manual, formatted as a formal report, incorporating technical descriptions, instructions, and graphics. Prerequisite(s): COMM 1143 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 1.0
ELEX 1101 | Introduction to Codes and Standards This course introduces the relevant codes, standards and practices associated with electrical technologists and engineers. Students will learn the importance of these codes and understand the regulatory bodies that govern the practice of engineers and technologists. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.0
ELEX 1103 | Introductory Networking This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of data communication and networking. Topics include the physical characteristics of wired, fiber-optic and wireless media, basic Local Area Network (LAN) topologies, network interface controllers, Internet Protocol (IP) addressing, basic switches and routers and the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model for communication systems. Students will also learn basic troubleshooting techniques. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
ELEX 1104 | Engineering Spreadsheets This course provides an introduction to organizing and formatting information with spreadsheet software including the use of macros.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
Level 3 | Credits
COMM 3690 | Technical Communication for Engineering In this course, students build on the technical communication skills learned in COMM 1143. Students prepare persuasive messages and visuals for reports and presentations. Students will present a short, persuasive oral presentation. Prerequisite(s): COMM 1243 course outline | 1.0
ELEX 3120 | Electronic Circuits 2 This course focuses on electronics as it applies to measurement and feedback control systems. The first half of this course involves the analysis and design of common operational amplifier (op-amp) circuits and examines the op-amps non-ideal characteristics in terms of circuit performance. The second half of this course will engage students in studying the behaviour of first- and second-order systems. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2105 and ELEX 2120 and MATH 3433 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.0
ELEX 3210 | Sensors for Measurement and Control This course introduces the student to the principles and techniques used in the industrial measurement of pressure, level, temperature, strain and humidity. Topics include pressure and level transmitters, temperature transducers, and strain gauges. Labs will apply the principles of the above topics and the latest in smart transmitter technology to various industrial and commercial applications. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 2105 and MATH 2431 and PHYS 2143 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 3305 | Microcontroller Systems Using a simple microcontroller system as a vehicle, this course introduces the single-chip microcontroller as a fundamental component of modern control and data acquisition systems. Course topics include: memory technologies; CPU architecture; low-level programming and instruction execution; general purpose (digital) input and output; interrupts; analog to digital converters; timers; pulse-width modulation; and serial communications. A PC-based Integrated Development Environment (IDE) and a single board microcontroller system are used. A strong emphasis is placed on software design and debugging methods. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 2117 and 50% in ELEX 2125 course outline | 6.0
ENGR 3800 | Introduction to Professional Engineering This course explores the practice of engineering and the role of engineers in society. Topics include professional associations, ethics, equity, design and development, standards, and intellectual property. Prerequisite(s): (50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in COMM 1243) or 50% in COMM 2269 or 50% in COMM 2451 course outline | 3.0
MATH 3433 | Transform Calculus and Statistics for Electronics This course covers basic concepts of ordinary differential equations, Laplace transforms and introductory probability and statistics. Topics covered throughout will use examples relevant to electronics technology. Ordinary differential equations topic coverage includes: first and second order ordinary linear differential equations and initial value problems. Laplace transform topic coverage includes: step and impulse functions, Laplace transforms of functions and mathematical operations, inverse Laplace transforms, solution of differential equations using Laplace transforms, circuit analysis in the s-domain, transfer functions and pole-zero plots. Probability and statistics coverage includes: descriptive statistics and data presentation, probability, probability distributions and linear regression. Prerequisite(s): MATH 2431 course outline | 4.0
MATH 3620 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra This course covers methods and concepts of linear algebra including vectors, matrices and matrix operations, determinants, linear transformations, matrix decomposition, matrix diagonalization, eigenvalues and eigenvectors and the matrix exponential. The course also covers analytical methods for solving ordinary differential equations of first, second and higher orders as well as systems of differential equations. Course topics will be approached throughout with an emphasis on modeling of engineering systems in the electrical, mechanical, heat transfer and control systems fields. Some exposure to Matlab or equivalent mathematical software will be provided in this course. Students will use the software to assist with calculations in this course. Prerequisite(s): MATH 3433 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 5.0
Level 4 | Credits
Term A (15 weeks)*
CHEM 3615 | Engineering Chemistry This course provides an overview of the basic principles in general chemistry with practical applications. Topics covered include: atomic structure, theories of bonding and molecular structure, introduction to quantum mechanics, stoichiometry, physical properties of molecules and materials, chemical equilibrium and electrochemistry and nuclear chemistry. The material shows the relevance of chemistry in engineering, emphasizing true problem-solving over simple algebraic mastery. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.5
ELEX 4618 | Object Oriented Program Design This course continues to build on previous programming skills with the introduction of object-oriented programming techniques. C++ classes and the related topics of abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and function and operator overloading are covered. The C++ standard library is covered for both console and file input/output data manipulation, as well as more recent additions to the library such as threads. C++ string manipulation techniques will be used to implement a custom serial communication protocol. The use of C++ in complex, time-critical, applications is motivated through the development of a machine vision application using the open source C++ library OpenCV. Advanced data structures such as vectors and linked lists for dynamic memory allocation will also be introduced. Development will take place on both Windows and Linux operating systems to investigate cross-platform development. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3305 course outline | 5.0
MATH 4620 | Multivariable and Vector Calculus This course begins with partial derivatives with associated applications involving concepts such as extrema and Lagrange multipliers. Multiple integrals and applications in various coordinate systems are then covered. Theory and applications are then extended to vector functions and operators, line and surface integrals and integral theorems such as Stokes', Green's, and Gauss' theorems. Emphasis will be placed on applications in electromagnetism. Prerequisite(s): MATH 3620 course outline | 4.0
MECH 4630 | Statics and Dynamics This course develops the fundamental concepts of classical mechanics (statics and dynamics). Topics include linear and rotational kinematics, relative motion, force vectors, force system resultants, moments, centroids, free body diagrams, particle and rigid body equilibrium, structural analysis, Newton's laws, and work and energy. This course uses of a variety of mathematical tools including vector/matrix algebra, linear and non-linear equations, and differential/integral/vector calculus. Lab work consists of both physical experiments and numerical simulations (students will write computer programs using Matlab or C/C++ code), both of which illustrate fundamental physical concepts (mass, force, equilibrium, inertia). Prerequisite(s): MATH 4620 † and PHYS 2143 ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 5.0
MECH 4640 | Thermodynamics This course introduces students to the fundamental concepts of heat, work and energy. The first law of thermodynamics is introduced and used to analyse engineering devices such as compressors and turbines. Air, steam and refrigerants are used as working fluids. The second law of thermodynamics is used to evaluate the direction in which real processes occur. Entropy is used to evaluate irreversibility in real processes and to quantify the efficiency of devices. Power and refrigeration cycles are introduced and the first and second laws are used to perform engineering analysis of the cycles. Mixtures of air and water vapor are also discussed. Prerequisite(s): MATH 2431 and PHYS 2143 course outline | 4.0
MKTG 4690 | Marketing and Communication for Engineers This course is designed to provide the engineering students with an overview of the marketing concept, and how to leverage marketing strategies and effective communication for enterprise and personal success. It includes strategic analysis, market research techniques, marketing strategies, and report and presentation optimization. Lectures are designed to build a solid foundation of marketing and business communication fundamentals. Labs are geared toward applying these fundamentals, and to finding solutions to relevant marketing challenges. Students will be expected to present their solutions to the class both orally and in written report format. Assignments will be both individual and group based. Prerequisite(s): COMM 3690 course outline | 3.0
Plus either Term B (4 weeks) or ELEX 6992.*
Level 5 | Credits
CHSC 7540 | Engineering Materials This course provides an introduction to the materials used in engineering, including metals, polymers, ceramics and semiconductors. Macroscopic properties, such as mechanical strength, elastic modulus and electrical conductivity, are dominated by structure and bonding. The microstructure of materials is examined and related to the macroscopic properties for the different materials classes. Topics such as phase diagrams, solid state transformations, fracture and corrosion are included. Testing and measurement of mechanical and physical properties will be performed in the laboratory sessions. Prerequisite(s): CHEM 3615 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7520 | Advanced Circuit Analysis This course builds on the prerequisite core courses to explore in greater depth the methods in linear circuit analysis and transistor circuit design. The course begins by covering generalized circuit analysis techniques including any combination of dependent and independent current and voltage sources. The concept of duality and dual circuits is discussed. Laplace Transform, transfer function, frequency response and their role in circuit analysis are coveredQualitative device physics for the MOS Field Effect Transistor (MOSFET) is then presented, with the large and small signal models for the MOSFET discussed. Single stage amplifiers using the MOSFET are analyzed using the small signal model. The MOSFET’s usage as an electronic switch is reviewed, and its applications in modern electronics are introduced. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3120 and MATH 3433 and MATH 4620 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 7530 | Electromagnetics Fundamentals This course is a detailed treatment of classical electromagnetic theory. In the beginning, physical units and fundamental vector algebra are introduced. Static and dynamic field equations are presented, leading to Maxwell's Equations. Solutions to Maxwell's Equations for numerous practical configurations are covered, encompassing complex geometries, real materials, wave propagation, power, and energy. These basics provide the foundation for circuit theory, wireless transmission, and electromechanical energy conversion, as well as other areas of electrical engineering. Prerequisite(s): MATH 4620 and PHYS 2143 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 7610 | Linear Physical Systems This course builds on the mathematics, electrical, and mechanical courses to provide a foundation for the analysis and design of engineering systems. In particular, linear system theory is developed for use in further study of signal processing, feedback control and communications. Treatment of both signals and systems is dealt with, with emphasis on continuous time analysis techniques in both the time and frequency domains. Techniques for system modelling, validation, and analysis are explored in the laboratory component of the course. MatLab will be used extensively as a computer tool. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7520 † and MATH 4620 and MECH 4630 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 5.0
LIBS 7001 | Critical Reading and Writing This is a course in advanced composition and rhetoric, in which students will develop skills in complex critical analysis and interpretation by analyzing and evaluating materials from a variety of discourses or genres, including visual, online, and print; developing and writing essays, including critiques and research papers; applying and discussing principles of rhetoric and critical theory; examining and using methods of interpretation and analysis from the humanities and social sciences; evaluating the credibility of primary and secondary sources, including as it applies to media literacy, and for the purposes of academic research; situating discourses within their historical context and relevant to rhetorical theories of different periods (for example, Aristotle in the ancient world and Bakhtin in the twentieth century). The course format will include lecture, discussion, and both individual and group activities. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177 or equivalent, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 7510 | Engineering Probability and Statistics The course covers random variables, calculus of relevant probability distribution models (binomial, geometric, hypergeometric, Poisson, uniform, exponential, Weibull, normal distributions etc), stochastic processes, large and small sample estimation and hypothesis testing, goodness of fit, an introduction to simple and multiple linear regression, and some time series analysis. A statistical calculator and MATLAB will be utilized. ​ Prerequisite(s): MATH 3433 course outline | 3.0
OPMT 7000 | Time Value of Money for Engineering Economics ​This course introduces mathematical formulas applicable to solving time value of money problems. Topics include compound interest, equivalence of cash flows, the focal date method, equivalent interest rates, annuities, future and present worth, and deferred annuities.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 0.5
Level 6 | Credits
Term A (15 weeks)*
ELEX 7550 | Power System Components This course examines the fundamental components of modern electric power systems, from generation to consumption. Building upon the principles of electric circuit theory and magnetic field theory, the following topics are studied: three-phase power, transformers, induction machines, synchronous machines. Laboratory experiments reinforce theory, and provide experience with safe Power Lab practice. Labs include three phase AC circuits, power factor correction, three-phase power and harmonics, magnetic circuits and transformers, power transformers, induction machines and synchronous machines. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3120 and ELEX 7530 and MATH 4620 and MECH 4630 course outline | 4.5
ELEX 7620 | Signal Processing and Filters This course covers important topics in continuous-time signal processing and discrete-time signal processing. It includes a general treatment of analog filter types, and the transfer functions for various classical filter types. Transformations from normalized low-pass to high-pass, band-pass, band-reject are covered. Various circuits to realize the resulting transfer functions are analyzed and implemented in the laboratory. Fourier Series and the various related transformations are covered. Spectrum representation of digitized waveforms is examined. Sampling and aliasing are examined, followed by an introduction to basic analysis and design strategies for finite impulse response (FIR) filters. The Z transform is developed, followed by an examination of recursive digital filters. Various s-plane to z-plane transformations are presented, and design techniques for recursive digital filters are covered. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3210 and ELEX 7610 and MATH 4620 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 7640 | Analog and Digital Communications ​This course introduces the student to the principles of baseband and carrier-based communications. The student is introduced to the description and analysis of signals and modulation principles and methods. Analog amplitude modulation, analog frequency modulation, and digital modulation methods are covered, both in terms of principles and applications in transmitters and receivers. System performance in the presence of noise and noise mitigation strategies are discussed. Application of the concepts in communication systems is highlighted. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7520 and ELEX 7610 and ELEX 7620 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 5.0
ELEX 7660 | Digital System Design This course trains the student to design digital hardware. Students learn to decompose problems and implement solutions using a combination of Register-Transfer Level (RTL) synthesis and third-party IP. Laboratory exercises and a project provide practice in problem decomposition and in effective implementation and verification strategies. Practical issues such as crossing clock domains, interface selection and hardware vs. software trade-offs are also covered. The course concentrates on FPGA technology and the use of Hardware Description Languages (HDLs) for synthesis. A significant portion of the course will be devoted to a project of the student's choosing. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3305 course outline | 4.0
ENGR 7480 | Environment, Energy and Engineering ​The course deals with environmental problems, Green House Gas (GHG) emissions and effects, sustainable energy and their resources and effects, the scientific background needed to understand these issues, and the role of engineers in solving relevant challenges. Topics covered include the science of global warming, ecology, energy resources, energy production and consumption, clean energy technology and systems, hazardous wastes, and environmental effects of product life cycles. Students will use knowledge learned to complete projects aimed at sustainable design. The scientific relationships among environmental issues, the need for clean/renewable energy, and sustainable engineering practice and design will be established and explained. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CHEM 7105 or (50% in CHEM 3615 and 50% in MECH 4640) course outline | 4.0
OPMT 7031 | Engineering Economics ​This course covers economic and non-monetary considerations for making decisions on public and private sector civil and electrical engineering systems. Topics include rational decision making, cost concepts, time-value of money, cost-benefit analysis, and risk and uncertainty. Prerequisite(s): 55% in CIVL 7011 or 50% in MATH 7510 or S in OPMT 7000 CIVL 7011 - Only for students in the BEng Civil Engineering program; MATH 7510, OPMT 7000 - Only for students in the BEng Electrical Engineering program. course outline | 3.0
Plus either Term B (4 weeks) or ELEX 6992.*
Level 7 | Credits
BUSA 7250 | Management Skills and Applications The course provides an overview of the basic skills of a manager and applies these skills through a series of projects and case studies. It examines the evolution of management and the organizational culture and environment. It also teaches the decision-making skills and the skills involved in planning, organizing, leading and controlling, including planning and facilitating change, teamwork, applying motivational techniques and effective communication. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
COMM 7790 | Technical Communication for Capstone Project Initiation This course supports the work the students are doing in ELEX 7790. In this course, students build on the technical communication skills learned in COMM 1143, COMM 3690, and MKTG 4690. They will write a literature review, write a formal proposal, practice presentation skills, and continue to develop teamwork skills. Prerequisite(s): COMM 3690 and MKTG 4690 ELEX 7790 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 1.0
ELEX 7710 | Communication Networks This courses involves in-depth study of digital transmission fundaments, data transfer limits, network switching techniques and network traffic control. The course also involves understanding OSI and IEEE layered architecture, peer-to-peer protocols, Medium Access Control (MAC) protocols, network topology. An in-depth study of TCP/IP, quality of service, DHCP and mobile IP, and queuing theory will be carried out. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7640 and MATH 7510 † ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 5.0
ELEX 7720 | Feedback Control This course covers the fundamental concepts of linear control systems theory and application. Linear, time invariant, continuous time systems are considered. System dynamic properties are analyzed in time and frequency domains. Concepts and tools of feedback theory are introduced including transfer functions, signal flow graphs, root locus, gain and phase margins, and stability criteria. PID control and its tuning formulae, rate feedback, lead, lag, and lead-lag compensation are developed. Practical issues such as nonlinearities and dead-time control are examined and methods for dealing with them are explored and dealt with in the lab. Experiments and computer simulations are combined with theory to reinforce analytical concepts. Students gain experience in using software for model simulation, controller design, and real time hardware-in-the-loop interface (MatLab, Simulink, and QuaRC). Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7610 course outline | 4.5
ELEX 7790 | Capstone Design Project Initiation This course covers techniques for project management, as well as preparation and presentation of a detailed project proposal and engineering work plan. It draws on the expertise in engineering theory and design developed earlier in the program, and forms the first part of their capstone engineering design project. Students work in a small engineering team to plan and initiate a complex engineering project that has various diverse constraints. Students gain experience in understanding the application and need for a project idea, creating objectives and requirements, creating a proposed design and work plan, and engaging in initial activity to address significant elements of risk and uncertainty. Prerequisite(s): COMM 3690 and ENGR 3800 and ELEX 7550 and ELEX 7620 and ELEX 7640 and ELEX 7660 COMM 7790 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 3.0
Plus two Design Electives**
Level 8 | Credits
COMM 7890 | Technical Communication for Capstone Project Completion* ​This course supports the work the students are doing in ELEX 7890. In this course, students prepare a professional career search package and practice interviewing skills. As well, they complete a formal research report which presents and analyzes the findings of a major project. They also learn how to present this information and analysis in an effective poster presentation. Prerequisite(s): COMM 7790 ELEX 7890 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 1.5
ELEX 7890 | Capstone Design Project Completion* This course involves completion of the capstone engineering design project. The projects are typically multi-disciplinary in nature. Students work in teams to execute the project proposal that was developed by them in ELEX 7790. The course draws on expertise in engineering theory, design and project management developed earlier in the program, and brings their capstone engineering design project to an appropriate conclusion. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7790 COMM 7890 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.5
ENGR 7880 | Engineering Law Ethics and Professionalism This course addresses key issues in engineering law, ethics and professionalism. The course content promotes critical thinking about legal, moral, and ethical issues that electrical engineers face. Topics covered include contracts, torts, partnerships, liens, engineering liability, patents, copyrights, trademarks, hazards, standards, safety and legal and ethical concerns related to use of computer hardware and software. It also includes ethical principles in professional employment, engineering management, private practice, and consulting. It addresses the roles and responsibilities of the electrical engineer related to environmental stewardship, and the impact of electrical engineering practice on the environment. Finally, it covers the roles and responsibilities of professional engineering organizations, and the ritual of the calling of the Engineer. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ENGR 3800 course outline | 3.0
and
LIBS 7007 | Technology and Society This course will explore the interrelationship between technology and society. The course will focus on how societal forces shape and are shaped by the meanings, development, spread, and uses of technology. Concepts, perspectives, and arguments from the social sciences and humanities will be studied and applied to analyze connections between society and technology. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
or
LIBS 7005 | Technology, Invention and Power From ancient Greek myth to modern science fiction, Western culture's depictions of the power of technology have shaped our contemporary views. By analysing selected works of literature, film, TV and Internet sites from different historical periods, students will explore continuities and changes in depictions of technology and its transformative powers. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
Plus two Design Electives** Plus one General Education Elective [PDF] (3.0 credits) * Note: COMM 7890 and ELEX 7890 both continue into Term B* (4 weeks) of level 8.
*Term B (Summer of Level 4 and 6) | Credits
Program requirements is all Term B courses and one mandatory work term that occurs in the summer following either Level 4 or 6. Students will be required to complete either the Term B courses or the work term at the end of Level 4 or 6. Term B (4 weeks)
ELEX 4651 | Programmable Logic Controllers This course introduces students to the application of Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) to industrial process automation. The course builds on logic and circuit analysis skills from previous courses and provides the background to design and implement automated sequence control systems. Topics covered are: PLC architecture, designing standard logic diagrams, ladder logic programing, I/O configuration and introductory Human Machine Interfaces (HMIs) design. The course is project based and involves design and implementation of few simplified industrial control projects using typical PLCs on real lab platforms. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3305 course outline | 1.5
ELEX 4652 | Industrial Electrical System Design The focus of this course is on the application of the Canadian Electrical Code (CEC) to design industrial electrical systems. This course builds from concepts learned in the circuit analysis courses and the code and standard course in first year to give students the required background to design basic power distribution systems used in industry. Topics include 3 phase circuit analysis, feeder calculations and ratings, motor branch feeders, voltage levels, grounding, fault calculations, protection and coordination, arc‐flash calculations, appropriate sections of the Canadian Electrical Code and established engineering practices. Software tools will be used throughout this course. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3120 and MATH 3620 course outline | 1.5
ELEX 4653 | Introduction to Python This course covers the basic elements of the Python language, program development, debugging and documentation. Students learn how to use Python libraries and are introduced to Python applications such as automated testing. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3305 course outline | 1.5
ELEX 4699 | Electronics System Design Project This course covers the design of systems via the integration of electronic modules and software. Students will work in groups to design, implement, and test solutions to a pre-defined problem requiring communication and signal processing. Board-level modules including a system on a chip (SoC) microprocessor and various communication, sensor and other I/O modules will be made available. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3305 and ELEX 4618 course outline | 1.5
Workplace Education (mandatory)
ELEX 6992 | Workplace Education Workterm The work term is a paid temporary job where students do productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the B.Eng. Electrical program. Job postings are approved by the BCIT co-op Coordinator. Students in the program attend workshops to enhance their employability prior to their placement and compete for job postings during the academic work term. During the work term, students are monitored by BCIT. Prerequisite(s): Completion of year 1 of the ECET program. course outline | 19.0
**Design Electives Complete 13.5 credits from the following list of electives: | Credits
COMP 7855 | Software Systems The course views software from a systems perspective. Software modules are viewed as components in a system. Software development methodology is reinforced in the context of an overall system design, including requirements analysis and specifications, implementation, testing, inspection, and debugging techniques. The integration of independent modules (including modules developed in different languages) is explored. Issues in distributing software functionality and data access across a network are explored. Common methods and modules for distributing system management and other functions over the Internet are discussed. Security issues related to distributed software-based systems are discussed. Students are exposed to TCP/IP network programming, and web-based user interface design. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4618 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7810 | Electrical Power System Analysis and Design This course is a design elective. The objective of the course is to provide a detailed understanding of interconnected power systems design, operation and control. The course will equip students with the latest tools for analyzing and designing power systems. It begins with a brief overview of interconnected power systems and fundamental concepts of AC circuit analysis. The main elements of power systems, such as generators, transformers and transmission lines will be studied and their models will be developed. The developed models will then be employed to study flow of active and reactive power through the interconnected power grid. The course continues with the detailed study of symmetrical components, and symmetrical and unsymmetrical short circuit fault calculation. Students will also gain an introductory knowledge of other important power systems issues such as protection systems, power system transient stability, grid voltage and frequency control. The course will include labs and projects to further familiarize students with design procedures. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7520 and ELEX 7550 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7815 | Digital Image and Video Processing This course is a design elective. It extends and expands the students’ knowledge of digital signal processing (DSP), with an emphasis on image processing. It reviews and then advances beyond prior courses that cover the classical topics of sampling, aliasing, digital filter design, and Discrete Fourier transformation. This course will introduce fundamental technologies for digital image/, compression, analysis, and processing. Students will gain understanding of algorithm, system design, analytical tools, and practical implementations of various digital image and video applications. Topics include two dimensional sampling and quantization, digital image enhancement techniques, point processing, spatial filtering, frequency domain filtering, digital image restoration, image histogram, color perception, discrete cosine transformation (DCT), image compression, multi-resolution processing and Wavelet transformation. Selected image processing methods are demonstrated and developed in laboratory activities through the relevant specialized modules of MatLab. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7620 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7820 | Real-Time Embedded Systems This course covers software and hardware design for real-time embedded systems. Topics include real-time implementation of DSP algorithms, code and hardware optimization for speed and power, real-time operating systems, reliable operation, and overall system architecture. In the laboratory, students will apply selected concepts learned in the lectures by implementing them on a development board centered around a DSP-oriented microcontroller. This course uses C as the programming language. There is some interaction with assembly code. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 4618 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7825 | Robotic Systems Design ​This course will cover basic topics in the design of robotic systems. The fundamentals of robotics will be covered including: mathematics for robotics including transformation matrixes and relevant topics in linear algebra, actuator kinematics and dynamics, trajectory planning and execution, and feedback sensing from actuators (i.e., encoders) and the environment (i.e., machine vision). Machine learning techniques will also be introduced for the topics of motion planning and image understanding. Prerequisite(s): MATH 3620 and ELEX 4618 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7845 | Renewable Energy Systems and Applications ​This course introduces students to renewable energy technologies with a focus on those most relevant to British Columbia. Topics include wind energy (with an overview of different types of turbines), small-scale hydro and tidal systems, solar energy and storage systems, and biomass power generation. Students will learn the basic operating principles, typical applications, and key challenges of each technology. The course will also explore how these renewable systems can be connected to the electric grid, and the associated technical and social considerations. Case studies and simplified examples will be used to illustrate real-world applications, and hands-on lab activities will provide opportunities to work with basic renewable energy components. The course includes a small design project where students will propose a simple renewable energy system for a specific application, considering both technical and practical factors.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 7550 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7860 | Wireless System Design This design elective builds on the prerequisite core courses to explore important technical topics in modern wireless communications systems. The evolution of cellular systems from is discussed, and other contemporary standards such as wireless local area networks (LAN) and personal area networks (PAN) are reviewed. Mathematical representation of the wireless channel is presented, and effects such as multipath, fading, and shadowing are discussed. The performance of various digital modulation schemes in the presence of noise is evaluated. Contemporary radio transceivers are presented and evaluated, including radio architecture, radio components, and performance measures. System design concepts such as link budget are used to engineer basic wireless systems. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7530 and ELEX 7640 and MATH 7510 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7865 | Energy Storage and Conversion Technologies This course provides an introduction to power electronics and energy storage systems, with a focus on how these technologies are used in modern electrical grids. Students will learn about the basic operation and applications of key power conversion devices—such as DC-DC converters, inverters, and rectifiers—and how they help connect renewable energy sources and storage systems to the grid. The course also covers common energy storage technologies, including batteries, pumped hydro, and flywheels, with an emphasis on understanding how batteries are managed and integrated into power systems. Through lectures, lab demonstrations, and case studies, students will explore how power electronics and energy storage can help improve power quality, balance loads, and support the reliability of smart grid systems. The course includes a practical project where students will apply their knowledge to a simplified system design related to energy storage or power conversion. Students will document their work in a final report that highlights their understanding of how these technologies support modern energy systems.​ Prerequisite(s): ELEX 7550 course outline | 4.0
ELEX 7870 | Industrial Control Systems ​This course explores the practical application of measurement and automatic control theory to industrial processes. Application and appropriate selection of flow measurement systems, control strategies and final control elements (control valves, variable frequency drives) to common industrial processes is investigated. Students will evaluate single input (SISO) and multi-input, single output (MISO) control strategies including cascade, feedforward, ratio, selective and adaptive systems commonly found in industrial processes. Control system stability is analyzed based on a first order plus dead time model of processes using Bode plots. Industrial control computers, specifically a distributed control system (DCS), will be investigated and used to create models and controls that simulate an industrial process (heat exchanger). The configuration and simulation will be implemented in a DCS laboratory after investigating, parameterizing and optimizing the control of a heat exchanger process in the laboratory. Prerequisite(s): ELEX 3210 and ELEX 7720 † and MECH 4640 ( † may be taken concurrently) course outline | 4.0
Note: Additional electives are under development.
Total Credits: | 249.0
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
Your learning environment will be a blend of lectures, labs and tutorials. Our labs are well equipped to support your learning needs. For example, one recent industry donation helped us to build a state of the art process measurement and control lab. In almost every lab facility each student has their own individual work station.
### Workplace education
A Workplace Education work term is a part of the BEng Electrical program. This paid work experience would normally occur in the summer after either year two or year three. The experience gained in the work term gives students an added advantage in securing employment after graduation.
The Centre for Workplace Education (CWE) maintains an online data base called CWE Bridge that allows students to view and apply to work terms. This platform is a tool to help BEng students satisfy the workplace education component of the program. BEng student access to the CWE Bridge is assessed in September and monitored on a continual basis. Most students in the BEng have access to the CWE Bridge except (i) students who have already completed the work placement requirement of the program and (ii) students who are in their final year of the program and who have a viable path to complete all of their courses by June of that year. These students will need to undertake an independent job search to meet their work term requirement for graduation.
### Program length
This is a four-year, full-time program.
### Grading
All courses have a minimum passing grade of 50%. Some courses require that a passing grade of 50% be obtained in both the lecture and the lab portion of the course.
### Accreditation
The Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering degree program is nationally accredited by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB).
Graduates of an accredited engineering program are eligible to register with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of BC (APEGBC) as an engineer-in-training. Once they gain four years of engineering work experience and complete the professional practice exam, they will qualify for a licensure and the designation of Professional Engineer.
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
## Graduating & Jobs
### Job opportunities
Engineers serve to protect the safety, health and welfare of the public. This includes protection of the environment. They provide expertise to facilitate the efficient and sustainable use of technology. They also frequently work within multi-disciplinary teams to tackle large multi-faceted engineering initiatives.
Electrical engineers are involved in research, design, evaluation and commissioning of electrical and electronic equipment and systems. This includes electrical generation and distribution networks, electrical machinery and equipment, communications systems and networks, instrumentation and control systems.
They also supervise and inspect the installation, modification, testing and operation of systems and equipment and investigate failures. Further, they may develop specialized applications and system software, prepare contract documents and evaluate tenders for construction or maintenance. They may also supervise technicians, technologists, programmers, analysts and other engineers.
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Electrical Engineering
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
The BEng, Electrical Engineering program is supported by a team of committed educators, staff and industry advisors who work hard for students’ success.
### Faculty
Victor Mendez , MSc, P.Eng. Program Head, BEng, Electrical Engineering Tel: 604-412-7763 Email: vmendez3@bcit.ca
Sadegh Abbasian , PhD Tel: 604-456-1266 Email: Sadegh_Abbasian@bcit.ca
Yousry Abdelhamid , PhD Tel: 604-432-8870 Email: yabdelhamid@bcit.ca
Pejman Alibeigi , MSc Tel: 604-412-7580 Email: Pejman_Alibeigi@bcit.ca
Ed Casas , PhD, P.Eng. Tel: 604-432-8936 Email: Eduardo_Casas@bcit.ca
John Dian , PhD, P.Eng. Tel: 604-432-8219 Email: John_Dian@bcit.ca
Bob Gill , MEng, P.Eng. Option Head, Telecommunications and Networks Tel: 604-412-7582 Email: Bob_Gill@bcit.ca
Craig Hennessey , PhD, P.Eng. Tel: 604-412-7588 Email: chennessey1@bcit.ca
Chamandeep Kaur , PhD Tel: 604-454-2291 Email: Chamandeep_Kaur@bcit.ca
Joselito Laguio , MEng, P.Eng. Tel: 604-453-4046 Email: Joselito_Laguio@bcit.ca
William (Bill) Maki , BEng, P.Eng. Tel: 604-412-7590 Email: Bill_Maki@bcit.ca
Kathy Manson , MASc, P.Eng. Tel: 604-432-8785 Email: Kathy_Manson@bcit.ca
Ali Palizban , PhD, P.Eng. Tel: 604-451-6924 Email: Ali_Palizban@bcit.ca
Hassan Saberi , MSc, P.Eng. Tel: 604-412-8388 Email: hsaberi@bcit.ca
Chris Siu , MSEE, P.Eng. Tel: 604-456-8013 Email: Christopher_Siu@bcit.ca
Kulwinderjeet Sivia , MTech, P.Eng. First Year Student Advisor Tel: 604-412-7587 Email: ksivia1@bcit.ca
Remya Sreenath , MEng, P.Eng. Program Head, ECET Tel: 604-412-7576 Email: rsreenath@bcit.ca
Ron Stewart , DipIT, MEng Tel: 604-432-8933 Email: rstewart67@bcit.ca
Robert Trost , MEng, P.Eng. (on leave)
Reza Vahidnia , PhD, P.Eng. (on leave)
### Assistant instructors
Chris Goetz , DipIT Tel: 604-456-1173 Email: Chris_Goetz@bcit.ca
Steven A. McClain , BTech, SMIEEE Tel: 604-412-7591 Email: smcclain@bcit.ca
Behrouz Sattari , MEng Tel: 604-412-7588 Email: bsattari@bcit.ca
Abhirami Senthilkumaran , MSEE, MA Ed Tel: 604-432-8669 Email: abhirami_s@bcit.ca
Rudymar Tolentino , BSc Tel: 604-432-8251 Email: Rudymar_Tolentino@bcit.ca
Jessica Wilson , BA Tel: 604-412-7692 Email: Jessica_Wilson@bcit.ca
### Technical staff
Ahmad Bagjery , BSc Tel: 604-456-8104 Email: Ahmad_Bagjery@bcit.ca
### Staff
Viktoriia Kovalova , PhD, P.Eng. Associate Dean Tel: 604-432-8976 Email: Viktoriia_Kovalova@bcit.ca
Max Tyrsa Administrative Assistant Tel: 604-412-7731 Email: soe-eet_admin@bcit.ca
Gundula Minato Program Administrator Tel: 604-451-6892 Email: Gundi_Minato@bcit.ca
### Advisory committee
Mark Arnott Nuytco
Neil Brazier WN Brazier Associates Inc
Terry Calderbank Apex Motion Control Inc.
Alex Jappy Spartan Controls
Younes Rashidi Hedgehog Technologies Inc
Pranil Reddy AMD
Joanna Wallace Lime
## Frequently Asked Questions
## Diploma Graduates
### If I have an ECET Diploma from BCIT, how long will it take to complete a Degree?
- BTech: You chose your own pacing, and for most people it typically takes about 4 to 5 years to finish the BTech.
- BEng: The BEng will take you 3 years of full‐time study to complete.
### I have an ECET Diploma from elsewhere and I meet the entrance requirements. How long will it take to complete a Degree?
- BTech: The time required to complete the BTech is the same for all students, regardless of where you took your Diploma.
- BEng: It will likely take 3.5 years for the BEng, depending on transfer credit(s) towards some first-year courses.
### Are the BTech and the BEng the same?
No. The following table provides some points for comparison for people with an Electrical Technology Diploma:
BTech | BEng
Part‐time: evenings and weekends | Full‐time during the day, Monday‐Friday
Three 15‐week terms/year | Two 15‐week terms/year followed by a short 4‐week mini‐term
24 15‐week courses after a Diploma plus an industry project | 35 15‐week courses after a Diploma plus 4 courses in the mini‐term, a senior (Capstone) Project and a summer work placement. Credit is often granted for 3 or 4 of the 15‐week courses, depending on your background
Not accredited, but you can become an engineer‐in‐training after writing a set of confirmatory exams | Accredited by the CEAB, which allows you to directly become an engineer-in‐ training on graduation
Both Degrees provide a path to become a Professional Engineer in BC
### What are the entrance requirements for people with an ECET Diploma?
- BTech: A 65% GPA is needed for entrance to the BTech. Applicants with a GPA between 60 and 65% may still gain provisional acceptance with a requirement to achieve 70% in specific courses within the program matrix.
- BEng: A GPA of at least 70% is needed to compete for a seat in the BEng. The highest GPAs each year will be accepted.
### What are the entrance requirements for people with education from outside of Canada?
- BTech: You must be able to show that ASTTBC is willing to certify you as a Technologist, based on the education that you have. If you are able to show that, we will accept it in lieu of the required 65% GPA in a Canadian program.
- BEng: Your previous education will be assessed for transfer credit on a case by case basis. Courses completed more than five years ago will not qualify for transfer credit.
### Do Employers distinguish between the BTech and the BEng?
- It’s not possible for us to answer for them. The more important point is that graduates from both programs have gone on to get good jobs.
### Are courses in the BTech and the BEng interchangeable?
- You cannot assume that the courses are interchangeable. Comparison of courses is surprisingly complicated, with consideration given to credit count, course length, prerequisites, delivery format, accreditation, program administration, Institute policies and other factors. Such comparisons have not been performed for most of the courses in the BEng and the BTech.
### Are both the BTech and the BEng recognized as an Engineering degree? Can I become a PEng from either program?
- Yes, there is a path to become a Professional Engineer from both programs. As for recognition, degrees in BC are approved by the Provincial Government, and both the BTech and the BEng are so approved. BTech graduates can become engineers‐in‐training in BC by writing a set of confirmatory exams. Engineers‐in‐training can go on to become professional engineers after a period of work experience. This process is managed by EGBC ( www.egbc.ca ). The BEng differs in that it is accredited by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB) ( www.engineerscanada.ca ). This allows you to become an engineer‐in‐training without writing confirmatory exams.
- More information on accreditation can be found at www.accreditation.org .
## Contact Us
### Spend-A-Day with us
Want to learn more about our program before you apply? Come spend-a-day with us. You’ll meet students and instructors, and get a hands-on feel for what the program is about.
If you want to discuss the program in more detail, please contact:
Victor Mendez , MSc, P.Eng. Program Head, BEng, Electrical Engineering Tel: 604-412-7763 Email: vmendez3@bcit.ca
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
