URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/financial-planning-diploma-part-time-6055pdipma/
Title: Financial Planning
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Financial Planning
Diploma Part-time School of Business + Media
## Overview
The part-time Financial Planning Diploma emphasizes practical training in financial and investment planning and advising. Your BCIT training includes preparing a comprehensive financial plan. This hands-on experience with real-world scenarios equips our students with a unique skill set that enhances their job prospects upon graduation.
Delivery: blended. See details .
The demand for qualified financial planners is high so if you’re interested in investments and working with people, this diploma program can help you move into a successful, rewarding career. By focusing your training at BCIT in this diploma program, you’ll be 100% prepared to start work in investment and financial planning upon graduation. With our networking opportunities, and focus on practical, useable skills, many students have job offers even before graduation.
### About the program
- Full or part-time diploma program
- Focused on practical training for financial and investment planning and advising
- Strong industry connections and networking opportunities
- After graduation, transition to the workforce or apply to complete your Bachelor of Business Administration degree at BCIT with full-time or part-time evening courses
Find more details of how you’ll be prepared for success upon graduation in the Program Details .
### Who it’s for
This program might be right for you if you:
- Are service-focused.
- Enjoy interacting with people.
- Have high emotional intelligence.
- Have an interest in investments.
- Enjoy forecasting and problem solving.
If any of these sound like you, visit the Entrance Requirements page today to apply.
### What grads can do
In this program, you’ll focus on the practical, usable skills you’ll need for a successful career in investments and financial planning.
Upon graduation, you’ll be 100% ready to begin working in the industry and be well on your way to receiving your Certified Financial Planner designation. You’ll also have the option to continue your education with BCIT’s Bachelor of Business Administration degree. Working towards the Chartered Financial Analyst designation is also possible.
Learn more about the variety of opportunities on the Graduating and Jobs page.
### International study
BCIT offers a number of international study opportunities that helps students gain a global perspective of the economy, culture, government, and everyday life of the country they study in. You could participate in a summer field school or complete an international degree. Learn more about studying abroad .
## Entrance Requirements
### Part-time Financial Planning Diploma:
Part-time Studies students considering the Financial Planning Diploma are able to apply directly to the program. Students are reminded to be aware of BCIT Policy 5103 – Student Evaluation [PDF] , stating all program requirements must be completed within seven years.
Additionally, part-time students intending to pursue the Certified Financial Planner (CFP®) designation have the option of completing the Associate Certificate in Financial Planning program. Alternatively, students intending to pursue the CFP® designation also have the option of completing just the core curriculum courses to help qualify to write the CFP® Level 1 exam:
- FMGT 1810 – Personal Financial Planning 1
- FMGT 3430 – Taxation and Financial Planning
- FMGT 3600 – Security Analysis
- FMGT 4810 – Personal Financial Planning 2
Although not a core curriculum requirement, students who have not previously studied introductory accounting are strongly encouraged to complete FMGT 1152 – Accounting for the Manager before completing FMGT 3430 – Taxation and Financial Planning .
Previous full-time students who have successfully completed Level 1 and/or Level 2, considering completing the Financial Planning Diploma through Part-time Studies, are advised to apply to this program.
### About Flexible Learning
Flexible Learning offers a variety of courses and programs in different delivery modes and locations to customize your learning at your own pace. You can review course prerequisites on our website and if you meet them, you’ll be able to register for that available course immediately. Some courses may require departmental approval or formal acceptance into the program. BCIT Flexible Learning courses are offered during the Winter (January), Spring/Summer (April), and Fall (September) terms.
### Application processing
Applications are accepted throughout the year with intake options available during the following periods:
Intake | Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
Winter (January) | February 1st* | Domestic students: January 2nd* International students: November 1st*
Spring/Summer (April) | May 1st* | Domestic students: April 1st* International students: February 1st*
Fall (September) | October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intakes may fill before the deadline. If you are currently registered in a course or planning to start, submit your application early to secure your spot in the program.
### Entrance requirements
Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Math: one of the following: Pre-Calculus 11 (67%) or Foundations of Math 11 (67%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program does not meet the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is therefore not eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
( CIPC : 52.0804)
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
Ongoing Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) intakes: January, April, and September .
## Advanced Placement
### Direct entry
If you have a diploma or degree, you may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through direct entry. Please note that only complete applications are considered; you must show proof that you have completed, or are registered in, all requirements.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Submit proof of meeting the following requirements with your online application:
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Diploma or degree* in any discipline from a recognized post-secondary institution
- Course-by-Course Self-Assessment form [PDF] showing that you have completed all of the required courses below
*If you have completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand, you will require a basic evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES) . Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered.
Required courses
Part-time course | Course name | Full-time equivalent
COMM 1103* (or 1106) | Introduction to Business and Technical Communication | COMM 1100
FMGT 1100** (70% or B) | Accounting 1 | FMGT 1105 (65%)
FMGT 2100** (70% or B) | Accounting 2 | FMGT 2105 (65%)
The following courses are recommended for completion prior to admission, but are mandatory for graduation from the program:
Part-time course | Course name | Full-time equivalent
COMM 2202* (or 2002) | Business and Technical Correspondence | COMM 2200
COMM 2203* (or 2003) | Business and Technical Reports | COMM 2200
* For accredited Canadian or US credentials, if you have achieved a bachelor's degree the COMM courses may be waived. If you have an associate degree or diploma, COMM 1103/1106 and COMM 2202/2002 may be waived. COMM 2203/2003 will still be required.
** Accounting courses completed in the UK or the US may be considered for transfer credit toward FMGT 1100/2100.
Program matrix
Once accepted, the following courses will be required to complete this program:
Part-time course | Course name | Credits
FMGT 3130 | Financial Statement Analysis 1 | 4.0
FMGT 3444 | Income Tax for Financial Planning | 4.0
FMGT 3510 | Finance 1 | 4.0
FMGT 3610* | Security Analysis 1 | 4.0
FMGT 3830 | Fundamentals of Financial Planning | 4.0
FMGT 4130 | Financial Statement Analysis 2 | 4.0
FMGT 4510 | Finance 2 | 5.0
FMGT 4610* | Security Analysis 2 | 4.0
FMGT 4721 | Financial Analysis in Excel | 4.0
FMGT 4830 | Comprehensive Financial Planning | 5.5
FMGT 4911 | Advanced Curriculum in Financial Planning | 3.0
FMGT 4921 | Career Preparation | 4.0
Note: Students must successfully complete FMGT 3600 (Security Analysis) for transfer credit towards FMGT 3610 and FMGT 4610.
Once accepted, you may register for courses on a course-by-course basis, provided that any course prerequisites have been completed, during the next available Part-time Studies term:
- Winter: January - March
- Spring/Summer: April - June
- Fall: September - December
All program requirements must be completed within seven years per BCIT Policy 5103 - Student Evaluation [PDF] . BCIT Policy 5103 also permits a maximum of three attempts to successfully complete each course within this credential. If you fail a course twice, you will only be allowed to repeat the course with written permission from the Associate Dean.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Direct entry FAQs
- When should I apply?
- When will I be accepted?
- When will I get my timetable?
- When can I buy my books?
To register for a Part-time Studies course , visit Register for Part-time Courses or contact Student Information and Enrolment Services .
Still have questions? Review the Admissions FAQ or contact Program Advising .
## Costs & Supplies
### Bring your own device
Most courses and programs in the School of Business + Media are BYOD (Bring Your Own Device). Please ensure you bring a laptop to every class. Plug-in outlets will be provided at most stations in classrooms, but not in all classrooms, so please ensure you have at least 2 hours of battery life available at the beginning of each class. Check the following recommended computer requirements prior to the start of class. If a program or course does not require you to provide your own device, that information will be provided by your instructor or indicated in the course outline.
For online classes, it is important you have a stable and consistent internet connection to access course content.
### Tuition fees
Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) tuition is charged on a course-by-course basis. Please see the Flexible Learning Tuition & Fees page for more information on domestic and international tuitions.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Important updates to Flexible Learning
Read more about the English requirement .
Note: Part-time programs and courses are open enrolment and although we make every effort to accommodate demand, course registration cannot be guaranteed in every semester. Courses in high demand fill quickly and may result in students unable to register for a course that semester. Courses may also be cancelled due to low enrolment.
### Program matrix
Check current availability of courses for this program.
1. Required Courses (complete a minimum of 91.0 credits): | Credits
BLAW 3100 | Business Law Presents a practical study of Canadian business law, including the legal and administrative systems, torts, contracts, sale of goods and consumer protection, employment, business organizations, and intellectual property. Participation in this course, taught by lawyers, prepares you to recognize and feel comfortable with the legal aspects of doing business. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
BSYS 2000 | Applied Data Analytics in Excel ​In an information-based society, every enterprise requires business analytics and decision support systems to enable a competitive advantage. As a result, knowledge workers across all industries increasingly require an understanding of data modelling and advanced data management and analytical techniques. Building off the foundational skills learned in BSYS-1000, this course leverages the Microsoft ecosystem, including Access, Excel and Power Query, Microsoft's data transformation and data preparation engine, to perform complex data management tasks. Advanced formulae, concepts, and data modelling theory will enable students to connect to various types of data to enable the analysis and presentation of data to enable business insight.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in BSYS 1000 or 50% in BSYS 1001 course outline | 4.0
ECON 2100 | Microeconomics This course investigates economic analysis, focusing on fundamentals of markets, supply and demand, consumer and producer behaviour, and monopoly and competition. Optional areas of business application may explore labour markets, government intervention and environmental regulation. Prepares students to identify and evaluate the economic considerations they will undoubtedly encounter in business. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ECON 2200 | Macroeconomics Presents a challenging overview of the workings of an economy. Stresses measurement and determination of national economic activity, the role of monetary and fiscal policy, and the understanding of inflation, unemployment and growth in an international environment. Prepares students to weigh political and economic issues as they relate to their business ventures. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
FMGT 3444 | Income Tax for Financial Planning The course is composed of assigned readings, Income Tax Act section references, lectures, group discussions and sample tax problems. The Associate Certificate in Financial Planning is a Financial Planning Standards Council (FPSC®) pre‐approved Core Curriculum program and meets Certified Financial Planner® (CFP) program academic requirements. For further information about earning the CFP designation, please visit https://fpcanada.ca/students‐and‐candidates/paths‐to‐certification. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 1152 and 50% in FMGT 1810 course outline | 4.0
FMGT 3510 | Finance 1 This course is the first of two courses (the second being FMGT 4510, Business Finance 2) that provides students with the tools and concepts required for the financial management of a business. The perspective taken is that of maximizing shareholder value, subject to legal and ethical constraints. Topics include free cash flow, the time value of money, financial statement analysis, corporate financial planning, working capital management and an introduction to capital markets and securities valuation and an introduction to capital markets and securities valuation. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 2100 or 50% in FMGT 2105 or 60% in ACCG 5110 course outline | 4.0
FMGT 3610 | Security Analysis 1** The Financial Management technology program at BCIT has entered into a partnership with the Canadian Securities Institute (CSI). This course, a product of the partnership, is the CSI's Canadian Securities Course (CSC) Volume 1. Topics include the Canadian investment marketplace, the nature of marketable securities, factors which influence their price and a review of the various methods employed to evaluate their worth. In addition, the operation of stock exchanges and investment dealers and the regulatory environment in which these institutions operate is discussed. Finally, the methods by which governments and corporations have their securities listed on the exchanges so that investors can trade them is studied. Successful completion of both CSI two exams (a grade of at least 60%) earns the student credit for the CSC with the Canadian Securities Institute and credit for this course and FMGT 4610. Note: There is an extra fee of up to $1500 + GST to enroll with the CSI for the CSC. Your textbook will be provided by the CSI not the book store. You are responsible for visiting the website and enrolling yourself – instructions on how to do so will be provided separately by email. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 2100 or 50% in FMGT 2190 or 50% in FMGT 2105 course outline | 4.0
FMGT 4510 | Finance 2 This course builds on the topics and techniques of FMGT 3510 Business Finance 1. Students will use tools such as DCF/NPV analysis and the weighted average cost of capital to develop a framework for capital budgeting that focuses on increasing shareholder value. Corporate risk management concepts and international financial planning issues will also be addressed. An overview of the theory and practice of capital structure decision making and shareholder distributions will be provided. Additional topics include leasing, public offerings, and financial options. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 3510 course outline | 5.0
FMGT 4610 | Security Analysis 2* The objective of this course is to impart to the students the principles of investment management . This course is part two of BCIT's offering of the Canadian Securities Institute's (CSI) Canadian Securities Course (CSC). As such, the course is designed to convey to those who are enrolled in it the fundamentals of investing . It includes a study of the nature and function of the securities markets, the framework essential to the valuation of common shares and fixed income securities. In addition, portfolio management, taxation, asset allocation and economic forecasting are studied. Prerequisite(s): FMGT 3610 course outline | 4.0
FMGT 4911 | Advanced Curriculum in Financial Planning The ability to integrate information across all of the fundamental areas of financial planning in order to meet the needs of clients, combined with adherence to professional standards, distinguishes a CFP professional from other providers of personal financial advice. The CFP Capstone Course plays a critical role in the training and assessment of future CFP professionals. The required courses focus on the underlying competencies and knowledge required in the components of financial planning (i.e. asset management or retirement planning). However, this approach gives students only limited opportunities for the integration of the professional skills and financial planning competencies across all of the components of financial planning. The CFP Capstone Course addresses this issue. This course focuses on financial planning practices, professional skills and integration which are essential to the practice of professional financial planning. This is the course where all the components of financial planning are incorporated, and where students hone their analytical and presentation skills. Students demonstrate these abilities by developing and presenting a suitable financial plan. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 4810 or 50% in FMGT 4830 course outline | 3.0
MKTG 1102 | Essentials of Marketing Marketing 1102 is an introduction to the fundamentals of marketing. In addition to the "four Ps" of marketing—product, price, place, and promotion—students will be introduced to how marketers create customer-driven marketing strategies based on their research and understanding of the marketing environment and customers. Students will plan a strategy for and compete in an online marketing simulation. After the simulation, students will evaluate their performance and deliver a marketing plan for their simulation company, which will be assessed on students' application of marketing terminology and processes and in the professionalism of their work. Additionally, students will complete assignments, quizzes, and exams. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
OPMT 1110 | Business Mathematics Reviews basic mathematics applicable to business and industry. Topics include consumer and commercial credit, simple and compound interest, financial instruments and discounting, annuities, mortgages, loans, sinking funds, leases, depreciation methods, capitalized costs, cash flow analysis, NPV and IRR. Emphasis is on maximum use of pre-programmed calculator and practical applications from the field of Financial Management. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
OPMT 1130 | Business Statistics Includes descriptive statistics, including numerical and graphical presentation of data, measures of central tendency, dispersion and elementary probabilities. Introduction to several discrete and continuous probability distributions . Introduction to inferential statistics through selected topics such as sampling, confidence limits of the mean, hypotheses testing, simple linear regression and the chi-squared test for independence. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.5
and
BSYS 1000 | Business Information Systems*** ​​Computers and information technology are the foundation of business today. This course provides an understanding of computer terminology, operating systems, and the most popular office software used in business. Students learn to use spreadsheets (e.g. Microsoft Excel), word processing applications (e.g. Microsoft Word), and presentation and graphics programs (e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint). Students also get an introduction to cloud computing and enterprise collaboration tools. The course also provides an overview of digital literacy, Web-based collaboration, and publishing and productivity tools. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
or
BSYS 1001 | Business Information Systems 1-Microsoft 365 for Windows ​Computers and information technology are the foundation of business today and an essential tool in the current labour market. This course provides a deep understanding of computer terminology, operating systems, and the most popular software applications used in business. The course discusses up to date technology issues and challenges that affect and impact the business environment. At the end of the course students will become proficient on Microsoft Office applications; specifically, in MS Word, MS Excel, and MS Power Point. Students work individually on projects in lab settings and complete a number of individual projects and quizzes /exams. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
and
BUSA 2005 | Principles of Management Presents both traditional and contemporary perspectives of modern management examining management and management roles in teams, projects, departments and the organization as a whole. Strategic planning, operational planning, leading, organizing and controlling for performance will be addressed. Through actual business scenarios, cases and exercises, participants gain experience in decision-making and applying theory to real world organizations. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
ORGB 1105 | Organizational Behaviour This course presents the study of factors that either influence or are influenced by people at work. Focuses on macro factors such as organizational structure, technology and environment; group factors such as group dynamics, leadership, conflict, change and decision-making; and individual factors such as personality, attitudes, perception and motivation. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
or
BUSA 2150 | Introduction to Organizational Development*** ​Organizational behaviour and management principles study the factors necessary to build high performing teams and organizations. In this course students develop an understanding of how individual and team behaviours impact the effective operation of organizations. The concepts and frameworks discussed in this course form the building blocks of successful organizational development, leadership, and management. Key areas of learning include organizational culture, individual factors including personality, attitudes, perception, motivation, communication, and team dynamics. The course also includes organizational structure and design, decision making, an introduction to leadership development, and management functions including systems, controlling, planning, power and politics. Learning modalities include individual and group assignments, case studies, and an industry-based research project. Critical thinking is an outcome of the applied learning modalities. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
and
FMGT 1100 | Accounting 1** This course covers the full accounting cycle for individuals with little or no accounting background. Topics include accounting as an information system; introduction to accounting theory; income measure; traditional record keeping; the accounting cycle; cash and financial statements. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
or
FMGT 1105 | Accounting 1 for Financial Management*** This course is the first of two designed to introduce the theoretical and practical foundations in accounting. Topics include accounting concepts and principles; income measurement; business transactions; adjusting and closing entries; financial statement preparation; the accounting cycle; merchandising operations; and accounting systems. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
and
FMGT 1810 | Personal Financial Planning 1 ​Introduces student to the field of personal financial planning. Covers the issues to be considered in building a sound program to achieve long term financial goals. Topics include money management, insurance, investments and portfolio distribution, wills, estates, pension management and tax planning. This course is a college level credit course and the workload is commensurate with that level of difficulty. The Associate Certificate in Financial Planning is a Financial Planning Standards Council (FPSC®) pre-approved Core Curriculum program and meets Certified Financial Planner® (CFP) program academic requirements. For further information about earning the CFP designation, please visit fpcanada.ca​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
or
FMGT 3830 | Fundamentals of Financial Planning*** Introduces students to the fundamental principles important to the discipline of personal Financial Planning. Students will acquire an understanding of the concepts and applications associated with financial planning, and the analysis of various financial situations. This course covers the basic issues to be considered in building a sound program to achieve long term financial goals. Topics include cash and debt management, insurance, investments and portfolio management, wills, estates, and tax planning. Prerequisite(s): FMGT 2105 or equivalent. FMGT 2105 (65%) or FMGT 2100 (70%). course outline | 4.0
and
FMGT 1540 | Credit and Collections Introduces credit and collections to persons who contemplate employment in credit and collections or need to understand the credit function. Topics include determining credit risk, credit instruments and collateral security, types of consumer credit and credit cards, sources of consumer credit information, collections, credit department management. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
or
FMGT 2540 | Introduction to Finance This course provides an introduction into the field of finance. It first provides a framework on the functions carried out by finance professionals, as well as how it fits and interacts with a firm's other functional areas. Introductory coverage is provided for managerial finance, corporate finance, capital markets and financial planning. Finally, the course introduces a framework on the types of decisions and how those decisions are made to maximize a company's intrinsic value. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 1100 or 50% in FMGT 1105 course outline | 2.5
and
FMGT 2100 | Accounting 2** This course is the second of two designed to provide first year students with a general understanding of the nature, purpose and general procedures of accounting. The course examines notes and accounts receivables; capital assets; liabilities; partnerships; corporations and consolidations; international transactions; financial statement analysis; and cash flow statements. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 1100 or 50% in FMGT 1105 course outline | 5.0
or
FMGT 2105 | Accounting 2 for Financial Management Continues from FMGT 1105. Topics include temporary investments; receivables, capital assets; liabilities; partnerships; corporations; bonds; statements of changes in financial position; financial statement analysis; manufacturing accounting; departmental accounting; cost-volume-profit analysis. Note: Fulltime Financial Management students who receive less than 65% in this course will need to complete FMGT 2100 with a grade of 70 or better before entering Level 3. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 1105 or 70% in FMGT 1100 course outline | 6.5
and
FMGT 3110 | Financial Accounting 1 With an applied emphasis, this course provides a solid foundation for professional requirements and transition to the workplace. The conceptual basis upon which assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses are defined is discussed. The end user financial information needs upon which International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Accounting Standards for Private Enterprises (ASPE) are based are identified. Building on introductory courses, the financial reporting model comprising measurements, statement presentations and related disclosures are explored on an area basis; current and non-current assets and related valuations, current liabilities, critical revenue and expense recognition criteria. The applied emphasis blends process (derivation and enabling entries) with end product financial statement presentation. Note: Full-time Accounting and Finance students applying for transfer credit for this course from other post-secondary institutes must have achieved a minimum grade of 65% or better. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 2100 or 50% in FMGT 2105 or 60% in ACCG 5110 course outline | 5.0
or
FMGT 3130 | Financial Statement Analysis 1*** Financial Statement Analysis 1&2 evaluate the general principles of the financial reporting system, underscoring the critical role of the analysis of financial reports in the investment decision making process. FSA 1 introduces the range of information that an analyst may use in analyzing the financial performance of a company, including the principal financial statements (the income statement, balance sheet, cash flow statement, and statement of changes in owners' equity), notes to those statements, and management discussion and analysis of results. A general framework for addressing most financial statement analysis tasks is also presented. The ethical presentation of financial information to the public by a company must conform to the governing set of financial reporting standards applying in the jurisdiction in which the information is released. FSA 1 explores the role of financial reporting standard‐setting bodies worldwide and the International Financial Reporting Standards and the movement towards worldwide convergence of financial reporting standards is also introduced and new technology that impacts financial management. Learners use financial software and professional data bases to model and analyze financial statements. Prerequisite(s): 65% in FMGT 2105 or 70% in FMGT 2100 course outline | 4.0
and
FMGT 4110 | Financial Accounting 2 This is the second of two courses in intermediate accounting designed to prepare the student to enter a professional accounting program at the intermediate level. FMGT 4110 covers significant aspects of the liabilities and equity section of the balance sheet, and the related income statement accounts. Both International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Private Enterprise GAAP (PE GAAP) will be examined. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 3110 course outline | 5.0
or
FMGT 4130 | Financial Statement Analysis 2*** Financial Statement Analysis 1&2 evaluate the general principles of the financial reporting system, underscoring the critical role of the analysis of financial reports in the investment decision making process.FSA 2 assesses how an analysis of a company's financial statements can reveal problems. In this course students learn to identify and evaluate red flags and warning signs contained in the financial statements and footnotes that would suggest that the financial reporting quality of a company has been compromised.FSA 2 covers the analysis of intercorporate investments and their different accounting treatments depending on the percentage ownership, amount of control, and other variables related to the relationship between the company making the investment and the investee.In FSA 2 students learn how to analyze the effects of mergers and acquisitions on a company's ongoing operating results.The presentation of financial information to the public by a company must conform to the governing set of financial reporting standards applying in the jurisdiction in which the information is released. FSA 2 examines, in depth, the role of financial reporting standard-setting bodies worldwide and the International Financial Reporting Standards and the movement towards worldwide convergence of financial reporting standards is also introduced. Prerequisite(s): FMGT 3130 course outline | 4.0
and
FMGT 4710 | Advanced Computer Applications 2 ​​​​​​This course is divided into two parts: One part builds on the learning from FMGT 3720 and continues to develop Data and Analytics skills using various tools including Excel, Power BI and Tableau. In the other part, Excel is used to analyze data and to build a Financial Model.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 3720 course outline | 5.0
or
FMGT 4721 | Financial Analytics in Excel*** This course builds upon the fundamentals of Excel learned at BCIT and in the students’ Finance and Accounting courses. It does so by approaching the subject of computer modeling from the perspective of an analyst who wishes to construct dynamic computer based models and scenarios which allow him/her to understand, and manipulate, the information associated with common financial and accounting problems. Rather than using the traditional lecture format, students will be expected to analyze various financial concepts and, on the basis of their analysis, construct a spreadsheet model which allows them to test hypotheses, compare the performance of alternative options under various scenarios and provide detailed information for the decision making process. In their project, students will be expected to design a working spreadsheet model based on a problem typically encountered in the assigned topic. Prerequisite(s): BSYS 2000 course outline | 4.0
and
FMGT 4810 | Personal Financial Planning 2 This course covers advanced topics and also draws on subjects learned in the six prerequisite courses of the Associate Certificate in Financial Planning program. A combination of lectures, discussions and case studies provide for an interesting course for individuals interested in pursuing a career in financial planning and/or preparing to write the CFP exam. The Associate Certificate in Financial Planning is a Financial Planning Standards Council (FPSC®) pre-approved Core Curriculum program and meets Certified Financial Planner® (CFP) program academic requirements. For further information about earning the CFP designation, please visit fpcanada.ca/students-and-candidates/paths-to-certification Prerequisite(s): 50% in FMGT 1152 and 50% in FMGT 1810 and 50% in FMGT 3430 and (50% in FMGT 3600 or 50% in FMGT 4620) course outline | 3.0
or
FMGT 4830 | Comprehensive Financial Planning*** This is the concluding course in the Diploma program in personal Financial Planning. It is designed to provide students with an applied understanding of the principles and applications related to financial planning. It draws on subjects learned in the prerequisite courses and covers advanced topics and case studies designed to equip the student with the knowledge and skills necessary to advise individuals. The primary topics include: taxation, insurance and risk management, retirement planning, investments, ethics and estate planning. Prerequisite(s): FMGT 3830 course outline | 5.5
and
FMGT 4920 | Career Preparation Through a series of guest lectures, presentations, research, and informational interviews, students will gain an understanding of the variety of careers in the accounting profession and will improve their written and verbal communication skills. Topics may include: networking in a professional setting, interview skills, resume preparation and career skills in the accounting profession. Prerequisite(s): Third level of the Accounting Diploma. course outline | 4.0
or
FMGT 4921 | Career Preparation The objective of this course is to give students the opportunity to cultivate meaningful professional experiences in the finance industry. Through a series of guest lectures, field trips, presentations, research, and informational interviews, students will gain an understanding of the variety of careers in the finance profession and will improve their written and verbal communication skills. Topics may include: networking in a professional setting, guest lectures/meetings with industry professionals, interview skills, resume preparation and career skills in the finance profession. Work‐integrated learning opportunities can be structured in a wide variety of ways, and the development of such opportunities could include relevant experience students acquired while working either full‐time or part‐time while studying. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Level 3 of either the Finance or Financial Planning diploma program. course outline | 4.0
*Students must successfully complete FMGT 3600 for transfer credit towards FMGT 3610 and FMGT 4610. **Students must achieve a final grade of 70% or greater in FMGT 1100 and FMGT 2100. ***Course is available through full-time studies only.
2. Required Courses - Communications (7.0 credits): | Credits
COMM 1100 | Business Communication 1* ​Employers identify excellent oral and written communication as one of the top skill requirements for jobs since business professionals spend time each day communicating with their supervisors, colleagues, and clients. As a result, this COMM 1100 course begins to address this by teaching students the specific core communication competencies that these employers seek. Founded in communication theory and concepts, students will have many opportunities to practice these communication competencies to help prepare them for a career in business. Students will build best practices in listening, writing, and speaking in a clear, concise, correct, coherent, complete, concrete and courteous way. Students will also critically analyze and address business cases to create effective messages, emails, letters, reports, conversations, and presentations. In addition, students learn about the interpersonal dimension of communication, which involves the relationship between people and place. This course also becomes the foundation for more advanced communication courses within the diploma program. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
or
COMM 1103 | Introduction to Business and Technical Communication ​This communication course teaches practical business communication techniques for planning, organizing, selecting, writing, and presenting information in business or industry. It covers routine memos, letters, request and reply letters, and oral presentations. NOTE: COMM 1103 is equivalent to COMM 1106. Although COMM 1106 may not be included on the program course list or program matrix, students may choose either COMM 1106 or COMM 1103 for their program. Students do not need to take COMM 1103 if they take COMM 1106. Students do not need to submit transcripts for entrance to this course. BUT, in the case of formal or informal grade appeals or reviews they will be asked to show proof of their English requirements. Students who wish to confirm their English level are strongly advised to take COMM 0015.​ Students scoring below "C+" in English Studies 12 are encouraged to take COMM 1106 instead of COMM 1103.​ Prerequisite(s): English Studies 12 "67%" (C+) or equivalent (ie: COMM 0015 "70+" or IELTS Academic 6.5, etc.) course outline | 3.0
or
COMM 1106 | Introduction to Business and Technical Communication (With Language Development Component) This communication course is designed for students needing additional assistance in meeting the language standards of a credit introductory business and technical Communication course. It teaches practical business communication techniques for planning, organizing, selecting, writing, and presenting information in business or industry. It covers the same content as COMM 1103, but has additional communication development and English grammar practice activities to support your learning. NOTE: COMM 1106 is equivalent to COMM 1103. Although COMM 1106 may not be included on the program course list or program matrix, students may choose either COMM 1106 or COMM 1103 for their program. Students do not need to take COMM 1103 if they take COMM 1106. Students do not need to submit transcripts for entrance to this course. BUT, in the case of formal or informal grade appeals or reviews they will be asked to show proof of their English requirements. Students who wish to confirm their English level are strongly advised to take COMM 0015.​ Students scoring below "C+" in English Studies 12 are encouraged to take COMM 1106 instead of COMM 1103.​ Prerequisite(s): English Studies 12 "50%" (PASS) or equivalent (ie: COMM 0015 "50+" or IELTS Academic 6.0, etc.) course outline | 3.0
and
COMM 2002 | Business and Technical Correspondence With Language Development Component ​This communication course teaches business writing skills needed to write many types of business correspondence. It covers claim, bad-news and sales letters, job applications, and the writing of procedures and instructions. NOTE: COMM 2002 is equivalent to COMM 2202​. Although COMM 2002 may not be included on the program course list or program matrix, students may choose either COMM 2002 or COMM 2202 for their program. Students do not need to take COMM 2202 if they take COMM 2002. To make up for a full-time diploma program level 2 COMM course, students must take both COMM 2202 (or COMM 2002) and COMM 2203 (or COMM 2003). Students do not need to submit transcripts for entrance to this course. BUT, in the case of formal or informal grade appeals or reviews they will be asked to show proof of their English requirements. Students scoring below "C+" in level 1 COMM are encouraged to take COMM 2002 instead of COMM 2202.​ Prerequisite(s): A final grade of 50%+ in COMM 1100 or COMM 1103 or COMM 1106 or equivalent. course outline | 3.0
COMM 2003 | Business and Technical Reports With Language Development Component ​​This communication course is designed for students needing additional assistance in meeting the language standards of a credit advanced business and technical Communication course. This course teaches the business writing skills needed to produce effective business and technical reports: inspection, trip, incident, and progress reports, proposals, feasibility studies, formal reports, oral reports, summaries and graphics. It covers the same content as COMM 2203, but has additional communication development and English grammar practice activities to support your learning. NOTE: COMM 2003 is equivalent to COMM 2203. Although COMM 2003 may not be included on the program course list or program matrix, students may choose either COMM 2003 or COMM 2203 for their program. Students do not need to take COMM 2203 if they take COMM 2003. ​To make up for a full-time diploma program level 2 COMM course, students must take both COMM 2002 (or COMM 2202) and COMM 2003 (or COMM 2203). Students do not need to submit transcripts for entrance to this course. BUT, in the case of formal or informal grade appeals or reviews they will be asked to show proof of their English requirements. Students scoring below "C+" in level 1 COMM are encouraged to take COMM 2003​ instead of COMM 2203. Prerequisite(s): A final grade of 50%+ in COMM 1100 or COMM 1103 or COMM 1106 or equivalent. course outline | 3.0
or
COMM 2200 | Business Communication 2* ​To further prepare students' communication competencies, and build on the principles taught in COMM 1100, this course helps students to transition from the classroom to a career in business. Students will have the opportunity to actively engage in real-world, client-focused case studies and team projects that will help them build confidence and develop the professional communication skills required for the Canadian workplace. This course concentrates on more sophisticated forms of written and oral communication: field-specific career communication including interviewing techniques and documentation, indirect correspondence, persuasive presentations, and data-driven reports. Students may also prepare visual communication, create questionnaires, organize and run in-person and virtual meetings, use digital collaboration platforms, and use AI-assisted communication. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1100 course outline | 4.0
or
COMM 2202 | Business and Technical Correspondence ​This communication course teaches business writing skills needed to write many types of business correspondence. It covers claim, bad-news and sales letters, job applications, and the writing of procedures and instructions. NOTE: COMM 2202 is equivalent to COMM 2002. Although COMM 2002 may not be included on the program course list or program matrix, students may choose either COMM 2002 or COMM 2202 for their program. Students do not need to take COMM 2202 if they take COMM 2002. To make up for a full-time diploma program level 2 COMM course, students must take both COMM 2202 (or COMM 2002) and COMM 2203 (or COMM 2003). Students do not need to submit transcripts for entrance to this course. BUT, in the case of formal or informal grade appeals or reviews they will be asked to show proof of their English requirements. Students scoring below "C+" in level 1 COMM are encouraged to take COMM 2002​ instead of COMM 2202. Prerequisite(s): A final grade of 70%+ in COMM 1100 or COMM 1103 or COMM 1106 or equivalent. course outline | 3.0
COMM 2203 | Business and Technical Reports ​This communication course teaches the business writing skills needed to produce effective business and technical reports: inspection, trip, incident, and progress reports, proposals, feasibility studies, formal reports, oral reports, summaries and graphics. NOTE: COMM 2203 is equivalent to COMM 2003. Although COMM 2003 may not be included on the program course list or program matrix, students may choose either COMM 2003 or COMM 2203 for their program. Students do not need to take COMM 2203 if they take COMM 2003. To make up for a full-time diploma program level 2 COMM course, students must take both COMM 2202 (or COMM 2002) and COMM 2203 (or COMM 2003). Students do not need to submit transcripts for entrance to this course. BUT, in the case of formal or informal grade appeals or reviews they will be asked to show proof of their English requirements. Students scoring below "C+" in level 1 COMM are encouraged to take COMM 2003 instead of COMM 2203. ​ Prerequisite(s): A final grade of 70%+ in COMM 1100 or COMM 1103 or COMM 1106 or equivalent. course outline | 3.0
*Course is available through full-time studies only.
Total Credits: | 98.0
Check current availability of courses for this program.
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
This program is designed by working professionals to prepare you for a career in financial and investment planning. By focusing your training on the necessary, applicable skills you’ll need daily in the finance industry, you’ll graduate with the knowledge and confidence to secure and excel at a job in financial planning. As part of the program, you’ll study in-class as well as with hands-on practice by developing your own financial plan. You’ll also graduate having written and passed Canadian Securities Institute exam to prepare you and your resume for success.
### Program length
The rate of progress through the part-time program varies. Although most individuals take three to five years to complete their studies, students have up to seven years to complete the program requirements.
### Additional program options
- Accounting Diploma
- Finance Diploma
### Accreditation
Students who choose the Financial Planning program will write the Canadian Securities Course examination. Successful completion is a mandatory step for anyone considering a career in the field of financial planning or in any aspect of the investment world. In addition, it is a prerequisite for all other courses and programs offered by the Canadian Securities Institute (CSI), including the Personal Financial Planning Course (PFPC).
Many of the individual courses in this program are eligible for transfer/credit to the professional accounting bodies.
The Financial Planning option is accredited by the Financial Planning Standards Council of Canada. It meets the academic prerequisites necessary to be permitted to write the Certified Financial Planners (CFP) national examinations.
### Program delivery
Blended: This program is delivered partly on campus and partly online.
This flexible learning (part-time studies) program is offered on a course-by-course basis, allowing you the flexibility to complete courses in any order, provided that any required course prerequisites have been completed. Students register for each course individually and may undertake studies in any term (Winter, Spring/Summer, or Fall). While you may choose the pace of your studies, all program requirements must be completed within seven years as per BCIT Policy 5103 - Student Evaluation [PDF] .
Please note that some courses in this program are offered only once or twice per year, and BCIT reserves the right to cancel courses if enrolment is insufficient.
In-classroom delivery is available for most courses in the program. Some courses are also offered online.
The length of most online courses is 12 weeks. Online learning students should plan to spend an average of seven to ten hours per week on their studies for each course.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
Downtown Campus 555 Seymour Street Vancouver, BC
Courses are also offered through online learning .
### Continue your education
BCIT offers part-time students the opportunity to complete a series of credential programs, ultimately leading to a bachelor's degree. If you apply and qualify, you can work towards the following credentials:
- Bachelor of Accounting
- Bachelor of Business Administration
### Degree completion: Bachelor of Technology in Accounting
The Financial Management department offers an Accounting degree completion program to those who
 already have an Accounting , Finance , or Financial Planning Diploma or equivalent. Please see our Bachelor of Accounting program for more information.
Universities will give credit for subjects taken in the program to those students who wish to continue their training and qualify for a university degree. Block transfer credit arrangements are in effect with Thompson River University, Simon Fraser University, the University of Northern British Columbia, Royal Roads University, and Lakehead University.
## Graduating & Jobs
Your training at BCIT includes preparation of a complete financial plan. This exposure to real-world scenarios provides our students a unique skill set to assist them in securing jobs upon graduation.
Some job opportunities for grads include:
- Financial Planner
- Financial Advisor
- Investment Advisor
- Assistant Financial Planner
With experience, grads can move on to become:
- Financial Service Manager
- Senior Financial Advisor
- Branch Manager
- Independent Advisor
You’ll also be able to start work as a financial planner and pursue your CFP immediately, or continue on to complete your bachelor’s degree, and from there, continue on to do a CFP and a CFA. This diploma program is recognized at many universities for block credit transfers.
### Apply for graduation
Upon successful completion of all program requirements, complete the Application for BCIT Credential . Please allow up to eight weeks for processing.
All financial obligations to the Institute must be met prior to issuance of any credential.
## Contact Us
For program related inquiries, please reach out to: fmgtpts@bcit.ca
Deacon Devlin Flexible Learning Coordinator – Accounting, Finance, and Insurance Tel: 604-412-7453 Email: Deacon_Devlin@bcit.ca
Contact a Flexible Learning Program Advisor with the BCIT program name in the subject line if you have a question about:
- Course selection and program planning
- Declaring your program
- Making changes to your approved program plan
- Applying for transfer credit
- Laddering options
- Job placement and graduate outcomes
- Student life
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
