URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/fish-wildlife-and-recreation-diploma-full-time-7935dipma/
Title: Fish, Wildlife and Recreation
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Fish, Wildlife and Recreation
Diploma Full-time School of Construction and the Environment
## Overview
Delivery: blended. See details .
The Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation program has been preparing students for rewarding careers in the conservation and management of fish, wildlife, parks, and outdoor recreation for over 50 years. The program is designed to give students a broad range of applied skills, experiences, and knowledge.
Students spend time in a variety of settings, including field labs, learning to identify, inventory, and monitor BC’s fish and wildlife species, the habitats these species use, and the natural areas set aside for conservation and recreation. Upon completion of the FWR program, graduates will be ready to work in the dynamic and diverse field of resource management.
### Recent Program Updates
In recent years, the FWR program has undergone significant updates to modernize and ensure it is in alignment with industry expectations for the knowledge and field skills graduates need to succeed in this field. The program is committed to ensuring that Indigenous perspectives and ways of knowing are included, meaningfully discussed, and respected throughout the curriculum. The FWR program has been carefully designed to ensure that courses in each term provide the building blocks of practical, applied, and theoretical knowledge needed for the following term. This culminates in Term 4, where students apply the knowledge obtained over their diploma in multiple capstone style courses that emphasize interdisciplinary, collaborative approaches in the environmental field.
Changes to courses and content have emphasized the delivery of applied field skills supported by theoretical knowledge that make our graduates not only employable but also sought after in the workplace. Two field schools in the second year of the program that focus on hands-on, land-based learning give our graduates a distinct advantage when applying for jobs, not only because of the skills obtained but also because of professional certifications gained following completion of FWR.
The updated FWR program has been accredited by the College of Applied Biologists for the Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) designation, and there are several pathways students can take following graduation from FWR to obtain further education that allows them to pursue a Registered Professional Biologist (RPBio) designation. The program has also been approved by the Alberta Society of Professional Biologists with graduates eligible to apply for a Registered Technologist in Biology (R.T. Biol.) designation. We have multiple Transfer Agreements in place with other institutions across the country that recognize the value of FWR graduates and are excited to offer further education opportunities.
### Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation
The FWR program uses a hybrid delivery model to provide students with relevant theoretical and practical hands-on learning through field labs and classroom experiences. Learning outcomes are aligned with current needs of government, the conservation and stewardship community and private industry. Faculty liaisons and partnerships with industry, and input from the FWR Program Advisory Committee, ensure that learning outcomes reflect the needs for managing natural renewable resources in urban, rural, and wild land environments.
In Year One (first and second terms), the program provides students with a solid academic foundation and basic field skills for careers in resource management and stewardship. The overall objective of course content and assignments in the first year is to familiarize students with the species, habitats, and ecosystems that exist in BC and provide students with knowledge and skills to assess them using established inventory methods and standards.
This provides the foundation for Year Two (third and fourth terms) where students focus on the management and stewardship of fish, wildlife, and parks and apply their knowledge in capstone style courses that bring together the accumulated learning from previous terms. Term 3 introduces students to the the theoretical knowledge and different perspectives that will be applied in courses in the final term of the program. During this second year, students also receive 90+ hours in the field with aquatic and terrestrial field schools in addition to several other full day or overnight field sessions that occur in other courses through the year.
A significant part of the second year is centered on a year-long applied research project. The project is completed/conducted in groups of four and is normally undertaken for an external client (e.g., government agency, NGO). Students also spend a significant portion of time in the field collecting data over the course of two terms to complete their project.
Upon completion of the program, graduates receive a Diploma of Technology and when combined with work experience, can apply for a professional designation as a Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) with the BC College of Applied Biology or a Registered Technologist in Biology (R.T. Biol.) with the Alberta Society of Professional Biologists . To learn more about professional designation s for careers related to the FWR Diploma, please visit the Professional Accreditation page .
### Do you want to Keep building on the skill sets and knowledge you’ll gain in FWR?
Graduates interested in continuing their education can pursue degrees at post-secondary institutions across BC and Canada. These transfer agreements allow FWR graduates to focus on specific areas of interest and build on the skills and knowledge gained in the program(e.g. environmental management, conservation biology, or species-specific learning). Want to focus specifically on Fish or Wildlife? Check out the BSc in Wildlife and Fisheries at UNBC or the BSc in Environmental Management with a Wildlife Conservation major at UNB. Want to help monitor changes in terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems? Explore BSc in Environmental Management or Science at Royal Roads, Lakehead University, and UNB. Do you want to be part of protecting and conserving ecosystems and their inhabitants? Have a look at the BScs in Conservation Science at the U of A and UNBC. To learn more, visit the Transfer Agreements page for a current list of degrees and institutions who offer agreements to our graduates.
Our graduates have an excellent reputation and pursue a broad range of work and career opportunities with private consulting firms, municipal, regional, provincial and federal government departments and agencies, non-government agencies and First Nation communities.
Important Note : If you plan to apply or have been accepted to FWR, please check with the program before obtaining a certification that may be part of or offered through the program.
### Testimonials
“The FWR program and outstanding faculty at BCIT provide an incredible pathway for anyone passionate about this field to gain essential skills. I have noticed a clear difference in the quality of education and experiences I’ve received compared to students from other institutions during my summer work terms. I feel equally matched working alongside the late undergraduate and graduate students during fieldwork. They also made me realize how fortunate I was to study at BCIT. When sharing my experiences—such as becoming electrofishing certified, using telemetry to track White Sturgeon, digging soil pits, or cruising timber stands—there is a consensus on how great an opportunity we had in FWR.”
Braeden Hallam – 2025 FWR Grad
“The BCIT Fish, Wildlife and recreation program not only prepared me for the job market, but it also provided me a skill set that emphasized my passions within a unique learning experience highlighted with hands on training and industry lead training. The practiced skills and in the field learning I received through the FWR program continue to be used in my career today – providing a foundation that I constantly to build on. I can’t say enough about the Faculty at BCIT and their engaged teaching style which provided support and real-world expertise. BCIT’s FWR program was a highlight for my post-secondary education with lifelong friendships, practical learning, and exceptional experiences!”
Gillian Steele, Acting Community Advisor, Fisheries and Oceans Canada – 20 2 2 FWR Grad
“Studying Fish, Wildlife and Recreation at BCIT was one of the best decisions I ever made. The small class sizes, hands on nature of the courses, and exceptional faculty made for an outstanding educational experience. This program gave me the skills, experience, and connections I needed to launch myself into a career in fisheries.”
Tyler Thibault, Community Advisor, Fisheries and Oceans Canada – 2017 FWR Grad
“Going back to school in my late 20’s and studying FWR was the best career move I have ever made. I was not engaged in typical post-secondary settings, so to learn about fish ecology while standing in a river, park management while in provincial parks, and wildlife habitat while in a forest was a huge reason, I was so motivated to do well. Beyond the amazing field trips and meeting amazing industry professionals, I also had the chance to develop critical reading, technical writing, and engaging presenting skills from a very passionate and knowledgeable faculty. Without a doubt, I would not have the amazing career and life I have now if I had not gone through the FWR program.”
Tyler Farley, Municipal Park Manager – 2015 FWR Grad
“Not only did BCIT’s Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation program open my mind up to the many exciting career paths that I could take, it also led to unique experiences, lasting friendships, and valuable skills that I use every day. I can draw a direct link between where I currently am in my career and the skills and connections that I gained from BCIT’s Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation Program.”
Kristi Owen, PhD candidate at the University of New Brunswick and Acadia University, looking at how wetland birds use human-created landscapes – 2013 FWR Grad
## Entrance Requirements
This is a physically demanding program that involves long days outside with at times strenuous activity. Success in the FWR program will require the ability to participate fully in these activities.
Please note that your application is specific and limited to the FWR program. There are many options for continuing your education upon graduation, and applications or expressions of interest in these opportunities must be submitted independently of the FWR program.
While the FWR diploma can prepare you for a career in certain areas of enforcement, if you are interested in becoming a BC Conservation Officer, there may be other programs better suited to this career path.
### Application processing
Applications are accepted:
- October 1st* to January 30th*
- February 1st* to May 1st*
- May 2nd* to June 30th*
The program area will accept students after each deadline date. Applicants not accepted after the January and May deadlines will be considered at the June deadline if space remains.
We recommend that you apply early . All supporting documents must be submitted by the application deadline.
*or next business day
### Entrance requirements
Admission to this program is highly competitive. Successful applicants exceeded entrance requirements. They also showed a strong understanding of the field and careers opportunities. Many noted paid or volunteer experience in their cover letter.
Competitive Entry: Two-step process
Preference will be given to applicants with:
- Academic grades above the minimum
- Related experience and/or volunteer experience*
- Additional post-secondary academic courses*
*Applicants with preferred entrance requirements are to submit transcripts and supporting documentation with their online application.
Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Math: one of the following: Pre-Calculus 11 (67%) or Foundations of Math 11 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses
- Biology: one of the following: Life Sciences 11 (67%) or Anatomy and Physiology 12 (67%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses Life Sciences 11 is strongly preferred due to the coverage of topics of Ecology, Taxonomy, Evolution, Plant Biology, and Animal Biology.
- Science: one of the following with minimum high school grade 11 (60%): Chemistry (preferred) or Physics (preferred) or Earth Sciences or Environmental Science
- Complete the following form for submission with your online application: Mandatory Applicant Questionnaire [PDF] : This form will be used with other entrance requirements in the competitive selection for the program.
Applicants who have completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, the United States, the United 
Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand will require a comprehensive evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES) . Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered. These reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations.
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
Step 2: Department assessment
All applications will be reviewed by the program area at the application deadline. Admission is competitive and will be offered to the most qualified applicants.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Students enrolled in this program must complete the mandatory work component to qualify for graduation.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program does not meet the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is therefore not eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
( CIPC : 3.0601)
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through either re-admission or direct entry . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
### Re-admission
You can apply for re-admission if you:
- were previously admitted to this program and completed part of it at BCIT and
- want to re-enter the program at an advanced level.
Submit the Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF] with your application.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Direct entry
You can apply for direct entry if you:
- are a new applicant to this program but already completed an equivalent part of it at BCIT or elsewhere and
- want to apply to an advanced level.
BCIT accepts complete applications starting:
- February 1st* for level 2 (January start)
- October 1st* for level 3 (September start)
Submit the following with your online application:
- Proof of meeting all general entrance requirements
- Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF] showing that you have completed (or are registered in) all level 1 courses (applicants to level 2 or 3) and all level 2 courses (applicants to level 3 only) or equivalents*
- Official transcripts of previous education**
- Resume
*Detailed course outlines/syllabi may be required.
**Applicants who completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand will require a comprehensive evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES). Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered. These reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Direct entry FAQs
It is recommended that you apply when you have met all of the entrance requirements. If you are currently registered in a course(s), please indicate this on the self-assessment form.
Once your application has been assessed and has been approved for direct entry, a seat must become available in the program you have selected. The Admissions department must wait until the current students obtain their final grades in either December or May to determine how many seats will become available for direct entry applicants.
Print your timetable one day prior to class start by logging into my.bcit.ca and going to Student Self-Service. You must be registered in your courses in order to access this feature.
It is recommended that you wait until the first week of classes before buying textbooks. Your instructors will tell you which books to buy.
If you have already completed a course either at another institution or through part-time studies at BCIT, you must apply for course credit/exemption as soon as you have been accepted to the program. You should attend classes until you receive formal written notice that you have been granted course credit. Please note that this will not reduce your tuition fees.
To register for a Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) course, visit Register for Flexible Learning courses or contact Student Information and Enrolment Services .
## Costs & Supplies
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
Year 1: $800–$1000; Year 2: $200–$400 (general estimated cost, subject to change)
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
Program Matrix for Graduates of 2026 – Note that there have been some minor changes made to the program and that the course schedule for Graduates of 2026 is different than course schedule below. 2026 Graduate Program is available here [PDF] .
### Program matrix
Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
COMM 1155 | Professional Communications and Practices for Resource Management ​This course introduces the general principles of technical writing, career communication, research strategies, and data organization and management. Students will practice using the elements required to produce a technical report. Topics in the course will include preparing job applications, resumes, and cover letters, and practicing interview skills to help students be ready for hiring processes in the natural resource field. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 1455 | Technical Mathematics for Natural Resources ​This course covers topics in technical mathematics that are important for success in the natural resource field. Topics include measurement accuracy and precision; unit conversions; ratios, proportions, and percentages; right angle trigonometry; trapezoidal and Simpson’s rules; linear functions; and logarithms and exponential equations. Mathematical topics will be linked to natural resource applications covered in other courses, such as calculating tree heights, estimating population sizes in mark‐recapture studies, and estimating discharge rates.​​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
RENR 1105 | Natural Resource Measurements This course demonstrates the fundamentals of field measurements, basic surveying, and sampling procedures commonly used in resource management applications. This includes field notetaking, traverse calculations and plotting, mapping of topographic details, and measuring tree attributes and stand characteristics used in habitat assessments. Lecture material will be supported extensively with field applications and hands‐on training. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
RENR 1125 | Plant Identification and Perspectives This course provides students with opportunities to hone their observational skills related to plants and to communicate this knowledge to others. Students will develop skills to use different identification tools and become competent in how to approach identifying any unknown plant. This course braids together Western and Indigenous ways of knowing plants and provides opportunities to examine our relationships with plants more closely. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
RENR 1300 | Field Navigation ​This course introduces skills and tools commonly used in the natural resource sector for safe and effective navigation, wayfinding, and map interpretation. In this course, students will gain skills in accessing, reading, and interpreting maps, aerial imagery, and digital geographic data. This course introduces the use and application of map projections, coordinates systems, and map datums frequently used in BC resource management applications. Students will also gain skills in the use of navigational grade Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) equipment and mobile applications.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
RENR 1310 | Introduction to Earth Science and Hydrology ​This course introduces topics within the study of physical geography and hydrology. Topics include local geology and physiography, the rock cycle, identification of common rocks and minerals, weathering and erosion processes, and identification of landforms. Students will apply their understanding of earth processes to evaluate geomorphic watershed characteristics and how they relate to the hydrologic cycle. Additional interrelated topics include precipitation, interception, evapotranspiration, stream flow and stream classification. Students will be introduced to field techniques used to describe streams in rural and urban environments, collecting data that includes stream velocity, and discharge measurements.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
RENR 1320 | Identifying and Describing Soils ​In this foundational course, students will learn about soil formation, physical, chemical, and biological properties of soils; forest humus; and soil sampling and soil classification systems. Students will practice observing, measuring, describing, and recording different soil properties in the field and in the lab. Students will also practice interpreting and classifying soil data to better understand soil properties and how they relate to plant growth and ecosystem development.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Level 2 (16 weeks) | Credits
CHEM 1150 | Environmental Chemistry This course examines the chemistry of the environment, emphasizing the composition of the natural environment and the fate of natural and anthropogenic chemicals in the environment. The purpose is to provide students with the chemical basis for understanding the environment and environmental problems. The major topics covered include the structure of atoms, compounds, stoichiometry, electrochemistry, solutions, acids and bases, salt and buffer solutions, and the solubility of compounds. The nomenclature, physical properties, and reactivities of the more common classes of organic compounds are discussed, with special attention given to industrial chemicals and organics that are environmental hazards. Lab activities will support the concepts learned in class.​ ​ Prerequisite(s): RENR 3350 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) Completion of Year 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 2111 | Digital Field Data Collection for Natural Resources This course introduces skills required for field data collection using digital survey equipment and technologies. The technology used in the course includes a range of professional and consumer grade global navigation satellite system (GNSS) devices, digital measuring devices, and the associated software and applications used in the natural resource sector. Data collection standards and procedures will be introduced and practiced in field labs to provide students with fundamental skills. Students will also learn how to identify the appropriate technology for tasks or projects that can be laterally applied or adapted to other types of field work and locations. Course topics will cover planning, preparation, and calibration of equipment, quality control and quality assessment, and the processing and analysis of digital field data. Prerequisite(s): RENR 1105 and RENR 1118 Completion of Term 1 course outline | 4.0
RENR 2240 | Environmental Law and Policy This course provides a broad overview of law in Canada and the province of British Columbia as it applies to resource development and environmental regulation. Students in this course study the legal framework of Canada, key federal and provincial acts, and important court decisions as they relate to the environment and Indigenous people. Students will also learn how to access and use legal resources, review best practices for working with regulators, and the roles and responsibilities of environmental professionals. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Term 1 course outline | 3.0
RENR 2310 | GIS for Natural Resource Applications ​This course focuses on use of geographic information system (GIS) technology for the natural resource field. Course content covers access to, and use of, a variety of data types and sources, basic GIS editing, geoprocessing, and analysis tools. Students will learn how to use GIS to present results in online environments, presentations, and technical reports and communications. Students will also be introduced to foundational concepts such as digital data, scale and map projections, data management, and workflow.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Term 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 2320 | Wildlife Ecology and Physiology ​This course will introduce students to the ecology, physiology, anatomy, and behaviour of mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles, and marine mammals of British Columbia. Lecture topics covered will include the evolution of species in the province, ranges and distributions, migration patterns, and life histories. Students will learn the taxonomy and key identifying characteristics of wildlife species in BC, with an emphasis on species endemic to the province. Students will also be able to describe how the individual animal interacts with its environment via bioenergetics. The cultural significance of specific wildlife species to Indigenous communities in BC will also be discussed. Labs will focus on basic functions and physiology of wildlife taxa, focusing on major life support and reproductive systems.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Term 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 2330 | Fish Ecology and Physiology This course will introduce students to the ecology, physiology, anatomy, and behaviour of freshwater and anadromous fishes of British Columbia. Lecture topics covered will include the evolution of fishes in the province, ranges and distributions, migration patterns, and life cycles. Students will also learn the taxonomy and key identifying characteristics of freshwater fish species in BC, with an emphasis on species endemic to the province. The cultural significance of fish to Indigenous communities in BC, in particular anadromous salmon, will also be discussed. Labs will focus on basic functions and physiology of fish, focusing on major life support and reproductive systems. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Term 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 2340 | Habitat Assessment ​This course will provide students with the knowledge and skills required to describe, assess, and quantify habitat characteristics for multiple life stages and species of fish and wildlife. In the first half of the course, students will be expected to apply information from case studies and wildlife‐habitat relationships to a series of field exercises to examine multiple aspects of habitat. The focus will be on anthropogenic effects on habitat and how wildlife responds. The second half of the course will cover the biophysical characteristics of freshwater streams and data that is collected to interpret habitat availability and sensitivity for different fish species, in particular salmonid species. Students will learn about habitat requirements for various species and life stages of fish and how to measure specific habitat characteristics. Students will work in teams to conduct a habitat assessment in a local stream and produce a short technical report summarizing their findings.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Term 1. course outline | 5.0
Level 3 (15 weeks) | Credits
COMM 2155 | Technical Writing and Communication ​In this course, students develop the skills and knowledge required to prepare technical reports and deliver professional presentations commonly used in the natural resources field. Students will use discipline‐related written assignments to support the development of a technical report. The course will also address the basics of peer review and collaborative communications, enabling students to become effective members of a team.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 3.0
MATH 2453 | Statistics for Natural Resources ​This is an introductory level course in statistics. Topics include descriptive statistics (including measures of central tendency and variation, and appropriate graphical displays of data); probability distributions; inferences from one or two samples (hypothesis testing and confidence intervals); linear correlation and regression. Additional topics may include chi-squared tests for independence and homogeneity. These methods will be applied to examples from the natural resource field. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1455 course outline | 4.0
RENR 3230 | Field Project in Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation 1 This course is designed to provide students with experience developing research objectives and methods related to projects in the fields of fish, wildlife, and recreation. As a team, students will design a project in collaboration with a community sponsor, complete background research, and begin collecting data. As part of this course, students will develop project goals and objectives, create an appropriate study design, begin writing a technical report, develop safety and communication plans, and incorporate supervisor feedback on iterative submissions. Content and skills learned in the first year of the program will be used throughout this course for in‐field data collection and written data summaries. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1 course outline | 7.0
RENR 3300 | Terrestrial Field School ​This field course is designed to familiarize students with practical field skills and experience in plant and tree identification, recognizing soil components, identifying and surveying wildlife, and field navigation. Students will gain experience measuring, recording, and relating environmental variables to different habitats to complete forest stand assessments (i.e., site diagnosis). Students will also receive instruction in, and hands‐on experience with, GPS equipment. Field sessions with Indigenous communities, stakeholders and/or professionals working in the field will provide students with multiple perspectives of relevant and contemporary issues in natural resource management and the ecological, economic, and social factors influencing habitat stewardship.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 3.0
RENR 3310 | Parks, Protected Areas, and Recreation ​This course discusses the environmental, social, and economic perspectives related to recreation, tourism, and stewardship of protected areas in British Columbia. Students will examine policies governing recreation and parks and protected areas and discuss examples of Indigenous stewardship principles in Indigenous Protected and Conserved Areas. Students will also examine sustainable growth of recreation and tourism through ecotourism and discuss how protected areas interact with industry.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 3320 | Wildlife Management and Stewardship ​This course will integrate species ecology and life history knowledge to introduce students to theoretical and practical components of wildlife management and stewardship in British Columbia. Topics include reviewing federal and provincial regulations that guide recreational harvest and conservation, Indigenous rights and stewardship, and the roles and objectives of government and non‐government agencies in wildlife management. Students will be introduced to experimental designs and methods used to survey wildlife species and confirm species presence or estimate population size. Students will also discuss socio‐economic factors that influence management and stewardship decisions, wildlife management strategies used in BC, current issues in the province, and strategies for mitigation.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 3330 | Freshwater Fisheries Management and Stewardship ​This course will discuss the theoretical and practical components of the management, conservation, and stewardship of freshwater and anadromous fisheries of British Columbia. This includes reviewing fisheries regulations in the province that guide recreational and commercial harvest, Indigenous rights and stewardship, and ecological theories supporting freshwater fisheries assessments. Students will learn different methods used to sample freshwater fish populations, including both passive and active methods, and how these techniques are used to estimate population size. Lab components will cover the various methods for aging fish including the extraction, preparation, and analysis of fin rays, scales, opercula, cleithra, and otoliths, assigning age to a specimen, and how this data is used to determine age class structures and complete population analyses. Students will also discuss historical and current fisheries management strategies used in BC, current issues in the province, fish responses to habitat changes, and strategies for mitigation.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 3340 | Indigenous Perspectives and Land Stewardship ​This course will explore the historical and current relationship between Indigenous Peoples, the federal and provincial governments of Canada, and the environment. Content will focus on events and issues related to fish, wildlife, and recreation in British Columbia. The course will provide an overview of the history of Indigenous Peoples in what is now called Canada. It will also examine the federal acts that have impacted Indigenous Peoples and review landmark legal decisions related to natural resources and land use. The course will also introduce Indigenous ways of knowing, the importance of relationships and reciprocity, and the idea of obligation or responsibility in the context of the natural world for both human and non‐human entities. Through readings, guest lectures, and projects, students will explore the working relationship between Indigenous Peoples and various levels of government, communities, and private industry in the context of natural resource management and stewardship issues.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 4.0
Level 4 (16 weeks) | Credits
RENR 3350 | Environmental Monitoring This course is designed to introduce students to theoretical and practical knowledge and skills that are needed to work as an environmental monitor and ensure that natural resource related construction activities comply with government standards. Content will focus on methods used to monitor major environmental site components that include water, soil, and general ecology and associated mitigation strategies to protect these components. Students will also review types of environmental monitoring communications, including reporting, “Chance Find" procedures, Environmental Management Plans (EMP), and Environmental Protection Plans (EPP). Prerequisite(s): Completion of Term 1 course outline | 4.0
RENR 3360 | Statistical and Spatial Analysis of Biological Data ​This course is designed to support students in the processing, analysis, and presentation of observations collected during year‐long project courses. Lectures will follow stages of project course submissions and provide instruction for data management and workflow, data collation and preparation for use and analysis in GIS applications, statistical computing, and graphical presentation. This course will provide students with the opportunity to work with data from their year‐long project and interact with and learn from other projects in review and discussion of results with peers. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 4230 | Field Project in Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation 2 In this course, students continue to complete a project in collaboration with a community sponsor. As part of this course, students will submit a technical report that summarizes the project background, methods, results, and overall findings. The completion of this report will involve project‐specific data collation and analysis. Students will also present their year‐long project findings to peers and community sponsors. Content and skills learned in the previous terms of the program will be used throughout this course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in RENR 3230 course outline | 8.0
RENR 4300 | Aquatic Field School ​This field-based course is a culmination of the aquatic knowledge and skills students have learned over the course of the FWR program. Students will gain hands-on experience with fish handling, fish capture methods, fish habitat assessment, and benthic invertebrate sampling protocols. Other activities will include fish and fish habitat data entry to the provincial database and water quality sampling. ​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in CHEM 1150 and 50% in RENR 3350 and 50% in RENR 3360 and 50% in RENR 4310 All Term 1, 2, 3 courses. course outline | 3.0
RENR 4310 | Integrated Ecosystem Mgmt In this course, students will apply skills and knowledge developed over the course of the FWR program to assess ecosystems and management options at various landscape scales. Students will be asked to consider multiple perspectives (Indigenous, government, community, applied science, industry) that influence ecosystem stewardship and management decisions. Content covered in the course will include ecosystem functions at the watershed and site levels. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 4.0
RENR 4320 | Trail Design and Management ​This course will introduce students to the planning, location, design, and construction of trails and their associated signage. Course content will include the concepts of the Recreation Opportunity Spectrum (ROS), carrying capacity, and Limits of Acceptable Change (LAC) in the context of sustainable trail planning, design, and development. Students will learn how multi‐ or single‐user trails are approved, developed, and maintained in BC. Safety, economic, and ecological considerations of trails will also be covered. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 4.0
Total Credits: | 112.0
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
- The Fish, Wildlife and Recreation program is a two-year, full-time day school program offered in a hybrid format for certain courses.
- Lectures and labs are offered in a variety of delivery methods, including on campus, online, and in the field, Monday to Friday, from 8:30 to 17:30, except on Wednesdays when classes end at 14:30.
- Academic Year 1 consists of levels 1 and 2. Academic Year 2 consists of levels 3 and 4.
- Each academic year has two terms. The fall term is 15 weeks long and the winter term is 16 weeks long (spring break excluded). Levels 1 and 3 are from September to December. Levels 2 and 4 are from January to May.
- The second year of the program includes two field schools, one at the beginning of the fall term (September) and the other at the end of the winter term (April/May). Field schools are held at sites outside the lower mainland and involve a per field school fee.
- Part-time entry into the program is not an option.
### Program length
Two years, full-time.
### Accreditation
The BCIT Fish, Wildlife and Recreation (FWR) program curriculum is accredited at the technologist level and meets the academic requirements to allow graduates to register as Registered Biology Technologists (RB Tech) with the British Columbia College of Applied Biology (CAB). FWR is also an approved program with the Alberta Society of Professional Biologists, and graduates can apply for designation as Registered Technologist in Biology (R.T. Biol.). To learn more, visit the Professional Accreditation page .
### Program delivery
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
## Graduating & Jobs
Your skills have widened, and your experience has grown. As a graduate, you are ready to work in this dynamic and diverse industry.
Graduates of the program are eligible to register for the professional designation of a Registered Biology Technologist or RB Tech with the College of Applied Biology of British Columbia.
### Job Opportunities
The job opportunities for graduates in Fish, Wildlife and Recreation are in both government agencies (local, regional, provincial, and federal) and in the private sector, primarily with environmental consultants.
Recent employers of FWR graduates include:
- Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO)
- Metro Vancouver
- BC Ministry of Environment and Parks
- BC Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
- Environment Canada
- BC Ministry of Forests
- Local government
- Consulting firms
- Indigenous groups and organizations
- Non-government and not-for-profit organizations
- Parks Canada
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Fish, Wildlife and Recreation
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
Laurie Stott , DiplT BA MET Program Head 604-451-6860
Giti Abouhamzeh Program Assistant 778-331-1392
Alex Tait Faculty
Bridget McClarty, BSc (Hons), BEd , MEd Faculty
Dave Critchley, BSc, MSc, BASc , RPBio , P. Biol, FRCGS Faculty
Jason Pon, DipIT, BSF, RPF Faculty
Julia Alards-Tomalin, DiplT, BTech, MEd Faculty
Kim Ives, MSc, RPBio Faculty
Steve Bonetti, BSc Ecological Restoration, BSc Geographical BioGeoSciences , RPBio Faculty
### Advisory committee
- A. D’Amato van den Hout, Seven Generations Indigenous Business Consulting
- J. Emery, The Nature Trust of British Columbia
- J. Sarchuk, BC Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
- J. Herbert, City of Surrey
- D. Chung, Fisheries and Oceans Canada
- R. Lyth, Fisheries and Oceans Canada
- N. Benedictus, Stantec Environmental Engineering Consulting
- T. Farley, Village of Cumberland
- I. Reynolds, Stellat’en First Nation
- D. Ramos Espinoza, Instream Fisheries Research
## Transfer Agreements
### External Institutions
Graduates of the FWR program are eligible for several block and course transfers to partner programs and institutions. Note that each institution and degree program listed below have specific requirements for entry. Applications for entry must be submitted to the institute of the transfer, and acceptance is made by the receiving institute. All agreements listed here are based on current program courses and do not apply to graduates of program prior to 2025.
The FWR program is accredited by the BC College of Applied Biologists (CAB) and graduates of the program can apply for professional designation as a Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech). FWR is also an approved program with the Alberta Society of Professional Biologists and graduate can apply for designation as Registered Technologists in Biology (R.T. Biol.). Note that there are several pathways for designation with CAB and other regulatory bodies in Canada and graduates from the FWR program in conjunction with the degree programs listed below may be eligible, with work experience, for professional designations beyond those listed here. Please visit our Professional Accreditation page and review requirements for the professional organization and designation that you wish to pursue for more information.
Block Transfer is when a group of courses, often in the form of a certificate, diploma, or associate degree, are recognized for transfer credit. Block transfers are agreements between institutions and usually occur between highly related programs. A block transfer is different than the single credit or ‘course to course’ transfers where students can gain credit for courses completed in another program or at a different institution than the one to which they are applying. Check out the BC Transfer Guide to learn more about single credit or block transfers.
Pending agreements will be posted as complete as they become available. Please follow the links below for specific details on each transfer agreement and degree program, or reach out to fwr@bcit.ca if you have any specific questions about the listed transfer agreements.
Simon Fraser University (Course Transfer)
Graduates of the FWR diploma program can apply for course transfer to Simon Fraser University (SFU) to pursue a Bachelor of Environment in Resource and Environmental Management (REM) . To Qualify for this transfer agreements, students must have a transfer GPA of at least 2.65. Students who have completed a minimum of 75% of the BCIT Diploma may also apply under this pathjway, however transfer credits awarded will be reduced to reflect completed course work.
Click on the link below to learn more about the transfer agreement.
Bachelor of Environment in Resource and Environmental Management (REM) (Transfer Agreement) [PDF]
University of Northern British Columbia (Course Transfer)
Graduates of the FWR diploma program can apply for course transfer to UNBC to pursue a Bachelor of Science in Wildlife and Fisheries or a Bachelor of Science in Conservation Science and Practice with a major in Landscape Conservation and Management . The minimum grade point average (GPA) for entry into post-secondary programs at UNBC is the equivalent of UNBC 2.00 or C (63%) calculated on most recent 30 credit hours of university level course work. Click on the transfer agreements below to view the transfer agreement and credit summary by course. Course transfer agreement by course is also available on the BC Transfer Guide.
BSc Wildlife and Fisheries (Transfer Agreement) [PDF]
BSc Conservation Science & Practice with a major in Landscape Conservation & Management degree (Transfer Agreement) [PDF]
The BSc Wildlife and Fisheries is an accredited program with the College of Applied Biologists – graduates are eligible for Registered Professional Biologist Designation . Graduates are also eligible for certification from the American Fisheries Society and The Wildlife Society of North America .
University of Alberta (Block Transfer)
Graduates of the FWR diploma program are eligible for entry into the BSc in Environmental and Conservation Sciences with a major in Conservation Biology. Entry requires a minimum “C-” grade in all courses completed as part of the FWR diploma. For a summary of the agreement, view the PDF provided below or visit the University of Alberta College Block Transfer page and click on the Transfer Agreement from BCIT Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation Program to University of Alberta for Faculty of Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences.
BSc in Environmental and Conservation Sciences (Transfer Agreement) [PDF]
Graduates of the BSc ENCS are eligible for a Professional Biologist designation with the Alberta Society of Professional Biologists and certification with American Fisheries Society certification.
Lakehead University (Block Transfer)
Graduates from the FWR diploma program are eligible for admission to the Wildlife Conservation and Management specialization, or any three specializations of the Honours Bachelor of Science in Environmental Management (HBScEM) degree program in the Faculty of Natural Resources at Lakehead University. Entry requires a minimum 70% average (GPA = 3.0 on a 4.0-point scale, 70% grade).
For additional details about this opportunity, please contact fwr@bcit.ca .
BSc Environmental Management (Transfer Agreement) [PDF]
University of Fraser Valley (Block Transfer)
Graduates from the FWR diploma program are eligible for admission to the Bachelor of Environmental Studies or the Bachelor of Environmental Studies (Natural Sciences) . Entry to all listed programs requires a minimum CGPA of 60% on all attempted courses.
For additional details about this opportunity, please contact fwr@bcit.ca .
Bachelor of Environmental Studies and Bachelor for Environmental Studies (Natural Sciences) (Transfer Agreement) [PDF]
Royal Roads University (Block Transfer)
Graduates from the FWR diploma program are eligible for transfer to the degree programs below in the Royal Roads School of Environment and Sustainability ( Transfer Agreement ). Entry to all listed programs requires a minimum “B” (3.00/4.33) GPA in completion of FWR Diploma. Both BSc degrees are eligible for an Environmental Professional (EP) designation from EcoCanada.
Transfer Agreement Summary [PDF]
BSc in Environmental Science | Approved for block transfer with the addition of one university level chemistry course
BSc in Environmental Practice | No additional requirements
BA in Environmental Practice | No additional requirements
University of New Brunswick (Block Transfer)
Graduates of the FWR diploma program are eligible for the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Management with three options for a major and the Bachelor of Science in Forestry . Entry to all listed programs requires an overall average of 70% or higher and a minimum grade of 60% in each course for which students seek transfer credit. Please review the agreement and articulation by program pathway (summary documents available below) for more details or contact fwr@bcit.ca if you have any questions.
BSc in Environmental Management (Transfer agreement summary) [PDF] BSc in Environmental Management Wildlife Conservation Major BSc in Environmental Management Water Resources Management Major BSc in Environmental Management People, Policy, and Planning Major
BSc in Forestry (Transfer agreement summary) [PDF] BSc Forestry
BSc degrees are eligible for an Environmental Professional in Training (EPt) designation from EcoCanada.
Graduates of the FWR Diploma program can also continue their education at BCIT and are eligible for entry to the BSc in Ecological Restoration.
## Professional Accreditation
Completion of the Fish, Wildlife and Recreation Diploma program at BCIT meets the academic requirements to apply for registration as a Registered Biology Technologist (RBTech) or RBTech in Training with the College of Applied Biologists (CAB) in B.C. RBTech applicants must also meet additional entrance requirements set out in the CAB Credentialing Standard . Additional requirements include applied biology work experience, professional work products, professional practice competencies, and references. Students who continue their education at institutions listed under our Transfer Agreements page or at other post-secondary institutions may be eligible for registration as a Registered Professional Biologist or a Biologist in Training in BC. Please note that you do not necessarily need to obtain a degree from an accredited program to register for a professional designation.
Learn more about the CAB registration requirements
The BC College of Applied Biologists is the provincial, government-mandated regulatory body that sets and enforces professional standards for its members, including Registered Professional Biologists (RPBio) and Registered Biology Technologists (RBTech). The regulatory body was established under The College of Applied Biology Act in 2003, and the legislation created a new standard, with applied biologists achieving full professional status through self-governing legislation. In 2021, the College and its registrants came under the Professional Governance Act . Under this act, biologists must register and meet the professional, ethical, and competency standards of the College of Applied Biology to legally offer their services.
Learn more about the CAB registration requirements.
Outside of the BC, there are several other professional designations available in this field. The program is also approved by the Alberta Society of Professional Biologists (ASPB) with graduates eligible to apply for a Registered Technologist in Biology (R.T. Biol.) designation. With the completion of a degree, students may be eligible to apply for registration as a Professional Biologist through the ASPB . Registered biology professionals from the Alberta Society of Professional Biologists can apply for registration and reclassification in the reciprocal registrant category with CAB .
The Environmental Careers Organization of Canada or Eco Canada is a national organization that provides resources, services, training, and a professional certification (EP) for individuals who work in environmental fields in Canada. The Environmental Professional certification (EP) is a nationally recognized designation for environmental practitioners designed to complement other professional designations in this field. It is an option for professionals in the environmental field who are looking for national recognition for their area of specialization.
The FWR Diploma is also recognized by the British Columbia Institute of Agrologists . Graduates of the FWR Diploma program are eligible for entry into the Articling Technical Agrologist (ATAg) designation and must complete the Articling Program to be eligible for designation as a Technical Agrologist (TAgs). Graduates who continue on to achieve a degree post graduation from the FWR program would be eligible for entry into the Articling Agrologist (AAg) status and must complete the Articling Program to achieve a Professional Agrologist (PAg) designation.
The BC Institute of Agrologists (BCIA) was created in 1947, and it is the regulating body for agrologists in BC. As defined by the BCIA, agrology is “… a broad multidisciplinary field that encompasses the natural, economic, and social sciences related to environmental protection, horticulture, aquaculture, viticulture, rangelands, silviculture, agri-tech, and natural resources management, and other related areas” . Like CAB and the RPBio and RBTech designations, BCIA and PAg and TAg designations are governed and regulated under the BC Professional Governance Act.
There are also certifications specific to wildlife biologists that are administered by The Wildlife Society of North America . The Wildlife Society (TWS) oversees certification or professional designation as a Certified Wildlife Biologist® (CWB®), Associate Wildlife Biologist® (AWB®), and the designation of Qualified Airport Wildlife Biologist (QAWB). The TWS has existed since 1937 and is an international non-profit scientific and educational organization with over 2000 members.
The American Fisheries Society (AFS) also offers a Professional Certification Program . Based on an evaluation of education and experience, successful applicants to the AFS program are awarded certification on a two-tiered system. Applications for professional certifications are evaluated four times a year, and applicants must be a current AFS member to be certified.
## Contact Us
Please contact Program Advising if you have questions about:
- Application process
- Entrance requirements
- Applying for transfer credit and advanced placement
- Program costs
- Job placement and graduate outcomes
program_advising@bcit.ca | 604-434-1610
Giti Abouhamzeh Program Assistant Tel:778-331-1392 Email: fwr@bcit.ca
Questions or comments?
Before you fill out the form, check the information in all the pages for this program. We may have the answer you’re looking for.
Also, if you meet any of the following criteria, please check these places first:
- You are an international student.
- You are looking for financial aid.
- You have already applied and want to check your application status.
- I still have a question *Required
- I have read the information above and still have a question that needs to be answered.
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
