URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/forest-and-natural-areas-management-diploma-full-time-7485dipma/
Title: Forest and Natural Areas Management
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Forest and Natural Areas Management
Diploma Full-time School of Construction and the Environment
## Overview
Delivery: in person. See details .
Do you have a strong connection with the land? Are you passionate about working outdoors? Do you see yourself becoming a leader in managing our ecosystems sustainably? The Forest and Natural Areas Management (FNAM) program can help you reach these goals.
The FNAM program gives you a strong foundation in ecology, earth sciences, mapping, surveying, and measurements. Through hands-on experiential learning, the FNAM program develops technical and field-based skills. These skills prepare you for an exciting career in a diverse range of roles. Whether you’re assessing urban trees, reducing wildfire risk around communities, or managing invasive plants, the role of a forest worker is rewarding and diverse.
Wondering what it’s really like to be an FNAM student? Come see for yourself! Through our Spend a Day Program , you’ll join live lectures and field labs alongside current students and instructors. Get the inside scoop on BCIT life from the people who know it best. See if FNAM is your perfect fit—join us on campus!
### Why is forest and natural areas management important?
Almost 60% of British Columbia and nearly 40% of Canada’s land is forested. Our forests provide a wide variety of social, ecological, and environmental benefits. Practicing sustainable forest stewardship requires the ability to assess and balance these values. Forest management integrates field skills, scientific and Indigenous knowledge, and technology to find this balance. Forestry workers assess the health of our ecosystems, plan both harvesting and reforestation activities, and ensure future generations can equally benefit.
Preserving our natural areas and urban biodiversity is growing in importance with increasing urbanization. People value urban forests and natural areas for recreation, aesthetics, and psychological well-being. Green spaces in our cities also provide important ecological services like wildlife habitat, storm-water mitigation, and urban heat wave moderation.
### What are some key skills you can expect to learn?
- Ecosystem Analysis: Identifying, describing, measuring, and interpreting components of connected ecosystems.
- GIS and Data Management: Collecting, using, and processing field data with GIS and other digital tools.
- Forest Health Assessment: Recognizing and mitigating forest health challenges related to insects and diseases.
- Traditional and Urban Forestry: Applying the principles of engineering, measurements, and silviculture in both wildland and urban interface areas.
- Wildfire Management: Applying active suppression and proactive wildfire management techniques.
- Critical Thinking and Communication: Communicating complex technical information in a variety of formats
- Holistic Land Management : Applying holistic land management principles, ethics, and Indigenous perspectives in decision-making.
### Professional designations and pathways
The FNAM program is accredited by Technology Accreditation Canada (TAC) and also contains the curriculum for graduates to be eligible to apply for a Registered Forest Technologist (RFT) designation or a Technical Agrologist (TAg) designation in British Columbia along with the potential pathways for other levels of certification and education. With additional relevant work experience, FNAM graduates can apply to become a Certified Arborist through the International Society of Arboriculture.
Thinking of continuing on to do a bachelor’s degree? The FNAM program has transfer agreements underway with a variety of institutes, such as UNBC . Read more under Program Details .
Indigenous Forestry Scholarship Program The BC First Nations Forestry Council’s scholarship program provides support to First Nations, Inuit, and Métis students attending full-time studies related to forestry such as FNAM. The scholarship includes a paid summer work placement with one of the program’s partners: Ministry of Forests, BC Timber Sales, BC Wildfire Service, Mosaic Forest Management, Gorman Bros Lumber, Tolko, Drax, and Finning. Interested students can submit an intake form .
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
Applications are accepted during the following periods:
Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intake may fill before the deadline.
### Entrance requirements
This program has a two-step admission process. Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
Step 1: Pre-entry assessment
Applicants must complete a pre-entry assessment form to have their experience and interest assessed by the program area.
Submit your completed Pre-entry Assessment form [PDF] to Giti Abouhamzeh . Once your pre-entry assessment form has been signed by the program area, you can upload it and submit your online application.
Step 2: Meet the following entrance requirements
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Math: one of the following: Pre-Calculus 11 (67%) or Foundations of Math 11 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses
- Science: any two Grade 11 and/or 12 science courses* (60%) or equivalent *Courses may include Anatomy and Physiology, Chemistry, Earth Sciences, Environmental Science, Geology, Life Sciences, Physics, Science for Citizens, or Specialized Science.
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements .
If you do not meet the published entrance requirements, please see BCIT Admissions Entrance Requirements for information regarding alternate admissions.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Students enrolled in this program must complete the mandatory work component to qualify for graduation.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program does not meet the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is therefore not eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
( CIPC : 3.0506)
### Apply to program
The Forest and Natural Areas Management program has three common terms and a choice of elective streams in term four: Commercial Forestry or Urban Forestry.
You do not select your elective stream as part of your application. Streams are chosen during term 3, and entry is competitive by GPA. If space issues arise, students may get their alternative choice. We maintain the right to ensure balance between enrolment in the two Streams.
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### Prior Learning Assessment & Recognition (PLAR)
Students may request to have prior work experience or previously taken courses assessed for course exemption. Contact the Program Head for further details on Prior Learning Assessment Recognition .
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Costs & Supplies
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
### Textbooks
At the start of each course the instructor will provide a list of required textbooks and guides. Wherever possible, digital versions of supporting course resources will be provided to reduce textbook costs. The estimated cost of books for the two years is $400-$500*.
### Equipment and supplies
Field equipment, supplies, and safety equipment are required to participate in most of the courses within the program. The estimated cost is $800-$1000* in the first year and $200-$400* in the second year.
*general estimated costs, subject to change
### Computers, smartphones, and calculators
In order to be successful in the program, you need to have the required supporting technological devices (laptop, smartphone, calculators). Having a laptop with the proper requirements will be necessary. If your laptop does not meet the following requirements, you will not be able to complete the course materials.
- PC laptop with the following: Operating system: Windows 10 or 11(Apple macOS not supported) Memory: 16GB or greater Processer: Intel 10th Gen i5 or better, or AMD Ryzen 5 4000 “U” Series or better Hard drive: Primary: 500 GB Solid State Drive (SSD), consider 2nd data drive or external storage Graphics card: Discrete Graphics: nVidia MX250/Quadro P520 or better Other: webcam, speakers, microphone, and mouse. Access to a printer and scanner Internet: High-speed internet connection of at least 30 Mbps download/10 Mbps upload Wi-Fi: Supports 802.11n or 802.11ac, ideally with a 2x2-capable wireless card MS Office 365 (Available free to registered BCIT students. Please see BCIT Software Access .) Note: Windows 10 or 11 is required (Apple macOS not supported). Chromebooks and Notebooks are not acceptable.
- Smartphone with the following: 2-5 GB data plan GPS tracking/location services Camera
- Scientific calculator: For field use: Battery powered T1 30x or similar scientific calculator (solar powered is not suitable). For indoor use: The Sharp EL-546 or Sharp EL-520.
### Expenses
A more detailed explanation of FNAM program expenses can be found on FNAM Program Expenses 2025 [PDF] .
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### September 2024 cohort matrix
The Forest and Natural Areas Management program has undergone a curriculum change, effective for the September 2025 intake. If you began this program prior to September 2025, please refer to the September 2024 Cohort Matrix [PDF] for course information.
### Class hours
Monday to Friday, 8:30 am to 4:30 pm (hours are subject to change). Detailed course schedules will be provided to you at the start of each term.
The FNAM program is a two-year, four-term program with classes running from September to the end of April.
### Program matrix
Level 1 | Credits
COMM 1155 | Professional Communications and Practices for Resource Management ​This course introduces the general principles of technical writing, career communication, research strategies, and data organization and management. Students will practice using the elements required to produce a technical report. Topics in the course will include preparing job applications, resumes, and cover letters, and practicing interview skills to help students be ready for hiring processes in the natural resource field. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
FNAM 1100 | Introductory Biology for Forestry ​This course introduces foundational concepts in biology through the major themes of cellular biology, genetics, evolution, and ecology, with an emphasis on applications to forest ecosystems and natural resource management. Topics include cellular organization and function, the storage and transmission of genetic information, mechanisms of evolution for the generation of biodiversity, and ecological interactions across populations and communities. Students examine how these processes are interconnected and how they shape adaptation, species distributions, and ecosystem function. Throughout the course, students develop scientific literacy by interpreting biological data and applying core concepts through laboratory exercises, case studies, and in-class dataset analysis.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MATH 1455 | Technical Mathematics for Natural Resources ​This course covers topics in technical mathematics that are important for success in the natural resource field. Topics include measurement accuracy and precision; unit conversions; ratios, proportions, and percentages; right angle trigonometry; trapezoidal and Simpson’s rules; linear functions; and logarithms and exponential equations. Mathematical topics will be linked to natural resource applications covered in other courses, such as calculating tree heights, estimating population sizes in mark‐recapture studies, and estimating discharge rates.​​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
RENR 1105 | Natural Resource Measurements This course demonstrates the fundamentals of field measurements, basic surveying, and sampling procedures commonly used in resource management applications. This includes field notetaking, traverse calculations and plotting, mapping of topographic details, and measuring tree attributes and stand characteristics used in habitat assessments. Lecture material will be supported extensively with field applications and hands‐on training. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
RENR 1125 | Plant Identification and Perspectives This course provides students with opportunities to hone their observational skills related to plants and to communicate this knowledge to others. Students will develop skills to use different identification tools and become competent in how to approach identifying any unknown plant. This course braids together Western and Indigenous ways of knowing plants and provides opportunities to examine our relationships with plants more closely. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
RENR 1300 | Field Navigation ​This course introduces skills and tools commonly used in the natural resource sector for safe and effective navigation, wayfinding, and map interpretation. In this course, students will gain skills in accessing, reading, and interpreting maps, aerial imagery, and digital geographic data. This course introduces the use and application of map projections, coordinates systems, and map datums frequently used in BC resource management applications. Students will also gain skills in the use of navigational grade Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) equipment and mobile applications.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
RENR 1310 | Introduction to Earth Science and Hydrology ​This course introduces topics within the study of physical geography and hydrology. Topics include local geology and physiography, the rock cycle, identification of common rocks and minerals, weathering and erosion processes, and identification of landforms. Students will apply their understanding of earth processes to evaluate geomorphic watershed characteristics and how they relate to the hydrologic cycle. Additional interrelated topics include precipitation, interception, evapotranspiration, stream flow and stream classification. Students will be introduced to field techniques used to describe streams in rural and urban environments, collecting data that includes stream velocity, and discharge measurements.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
RENR 1320 | Identifying and Describing Soils ​In this foundational course, students will learn about soil formation, physical, chemical, and biological properties of soils; forest humus; and soil sampling and soil classification systems. Students will practice observing, measuring, describing, and recording different soil properties in the field and in the lab. Students will also practice interpreting and classifying soil data to better understand soil properties and how they relate to plant growth and ecosystem development.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Level 2 | Credits
FNAM 1500 | Workplace Safety and Skills ​Safety is everyone’s responsibility. Knowing and understanding what creates a safe working environment is crucial to your long-term professional career. This comprehensive course provides the essential training and certifications needed to launch a successful and safe career in the natural resource sector. Through a combination of classroom instruction, hands-on training, and field exercises, participants will gain vital workplace safety knowledge, practical skills, and industry-recognized certifications. This includes developing essential digital literacy skills to effectively utilize computer applications and manage files for data organization and communication in the field.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
FNAM 2200 | Forest Inventory and Sampling 1 ​This course provides a foundational understanding of field measurement and sampling techniques essential to resource-based forestry. Students will gain hands-on experience in various inventory and measurement procedures applicable to disciplines such as timber cruising and vegetation resources inventory (VRI), utilizing digital and analog field equipment. The course emphasizes accurate measurement, comprehensive data recording, and data interpretation. Standards and guidelines, such as those prepared by the British Columbia Provincial Resource Information Standards Committee (RISC), will be followed so that students develop fundamental skills and understanding of principles in forestry. Through a combination of lectures, hands-on exercises, and field trips, students will gain practical experience in various sampling methods, data collection, and statistical analysis.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1155 and 50% in FNAM 1500 and 50% in MATH 1455 and 50% in RENR 1105 and 50% in RENR 1125 and 50% in RENR 1300 and 50% in RENR 1310 and 50% in RENR 1320 Completion of all Term 1 Courses course outline | 4.0
FNAM 2400 | Forest Engineering and Operations 1 ​Forest engineering is a complex discipline that requires critical thinking and problem solving to sustainably manage our forests. Within BC is a vast network of resource roads and trails which provide access to a range of commercial and public users. This course provides a comprehensive overview of resource road and trail planning, design, construction, and management and will also introduce students to the principles of forest operations such as harvest planning, harvesting systems, harvesting equipment, and access planning. Students will gain practical skills in surveying, mapping, and construction techniques, while also exploring the economic, social, and regulatory context of resource road development and access in British Columbia. ​ ​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1155 and 50% in FNAM 1500 and 50% in MATH 1455 and 50% in RENR 1105 and 50% in RENR 1125 and 50% in RENR 1300 and 50% in RENR 1310 and 50% in RENR 1320 Completion of all Term 1 Courses course outline | 4.0
FNAM 2700 | Wildlife and Habitat Stewardship ​At nearly 950,000 km2, British Columbia encompasses a diverse range of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, each supporting an array of fish, wildlife, and other living organisms. This course explores the practice of ecosystem stewardship and management in BC, providing students with the knowledge and skills needed to interpret and apply best management practices to fish and wildlife habitat for the sustainability of current and future generations. Students will learn practical skills including wildlife species identification, wildlife habitat characteristics, species at risk recovery strategies, and fish-stream classification and management. Students will investigate how frameworks such as provincial legislation, federal legislation, and joint First Nation management agreements guide the management of these areas, including strategies for conservation and sustainability.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1155 and 50% in FNAM 1500 and 50% in MATH 1455 and 50% in RENR 1105 and 50% in RENR 1125 and 50% in RENR 1300 and 50% in RENR 1310 and 50% in RENR 1320 Completion of all Term 1 Courses course outline | 3.0
FNAM 2800 | Land Management Principles ​Humans are not separate from the land. We have been engaging in land management since time immemorial. This course explores the principles, practices and history of sustainable land management through a lens that integrates Indigenous knowledge and Western science. Students will gain a deep understanding of diverse perspectives on land stewardship, through a combination of classroom learning, field experiences, and case studies. BC is a complex and rich environment, and now more than ever we need to consider how to interact with the land in a relationship of reciprocity. Students will examine land management principles such as the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals and holistic Indigenous concepts such as the honorable harvest. Practical skills will be developed through hands-on activities like seed collection, planting, and plant propagation. Students will also learn to analyze land management information using appropriate tools and become familiar with the relevant ministries, departments, and Acts associated with resource industries in British Columbia.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1155 and 50% in FNAM 1500 and 50% in MATH 1455 and 50% in RENR 1105 and 50% in RENR 1125 and 50% in RENR 1300 and 50% in RENR 1310 and 50% in RENR 1320 Completion of all Term 1 Courses course outline | 3.0
RENR 2111 | Digital Field Data Collection for Natural Resources This course introduces skills required for field data collection using digital survey equipment and technologies. The technology used in the course includes a range of professional and consumer grade global navigation satellite system (GNSS) devices, digital measuring devices, and the associated software and applications used in the natural resource sector. Data collection standards and procedures will be introduced and practiced in field labs to provide students with fundamental skills. Students will also learn how to identify the appropriate technology for tasks or projects that can be laterally applied or adapted to other types of field work and locations. Course topics will cover planning, preparation, and calibration of equipment, quality control and quality assessment, and the processing and analysis of digital field data. Prerequisite(s): RENR 1105 and RENR 1118 Completion of Term 1 course outline | 4.0
RENR 2300 | Ecosystem Principles and Identification An ecosystem is made up of the interconnected relationships between living organisms (including humans) and their surrounding environment. To better understand and describe ecosystems, various principles and classification systems have been developed. Classification of ecosystems is needed to aid in forest management, wildlife management, ecological restoration and conservation. In this course, students will learn about key ecosystem principles and how ecosystems are described. Several ecosystem classification systems have been developed for British Columbia, such as the Biogeoclimatic Ecosystem Classification (BEC), the Wetland and Riparian Ecosystem Classification, and BC's Ecoregion Classification system. Students will practice observational and data recording skills in the field through the collection of soil and plant information and analyze this information. Practical applications of BEC within the context of Forest and Natural Areas Management will described and practiced in a range of different situations or ecosystem types. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Term 1. course outline | 3.0
RENR 2310 | GIS for Natural Resource Applications ​This course focuses on use of geographic information system (GIS) technology for the natural resource field. Course content covers access to, and use of, a variety of data types and sources, basic GIS editing, geoprocessing, and analysis tools. Students will learn how to use GIS to present results in online environments, presentations, and technical reports and communications. Students will also be introduced to foundational concepts such as digital data, scale and map projections, data management, and workflow.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Term 1. course outline | 4.0
Level 3 | Credits
COMM 2155 | Technical Writing and Communication ​In this course, students develop the skills and knowledge required to prepare technical reports and deliver professional presentations commonly used in the natural resources field. Students will use discipline‐related written assignments to support the development of a technical report. The course will also address the basics of peer review and collaborative communications, enabling students to become effective members of a team.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Year 1. course outline | 3.0
FNAM 2600 | Principles of Entomology and Pathology ​This course provides a comprehensive overview of forest health with a focus on the identification and monitoring of common impactful insects and tree diseases in British Columbia. Students will gain a foundational understanding of tree biology/physiology, insect and disease classification systems, the signs and symptoms of forest damage, as well as the sampling methods required for detection. Through lectures, indoor activities, and field trips, students will learn to recognize common tree health issues that impact nurseries, natural stands, and urban trees. Students will also gain hands on experience collecting survey data to detect and monitor forest health trends over time.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1155 and 50% in FNAM 1500 and 50% in MATH 1455 and 50% in RENR 1105 and 50% in RENR 1125 and 50% in RENR 1300 and 50% in RENR 1310 and 50% in RENR 1320 Completion of all Term 1 Courses course outline | 3.0
FNAM 3200 | Forest Inventory and Sampling 2 Building upon the foundational skills developed in FNAM 2200, this course provides higher level sampling and measurement techniques used in the British Columbia inventory system. Students will gain practical experience in forest inventory, timber cruising (including Loss Factor, CGNF, and VRI methods),, log scaling, and waste and residue assessments. Additional topics include the Provincial Market Pricing System, including stumpage rate determination. This course emphasizes planning, data collection, compilation, analysis, and reporting according to current provincial standards and procedures. Students will collect field data and learn how it is reported through various provincial and federal systems. The Timber Pricing System manuals and the Provincial Vegetation Resource Inventory (VRI) ground sampling procedures form the basis of the applications practiced in this course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FNAM 2200 and 50% in FNAM 2400 and 50% in FNAM 2600 and 50% in FNAM 2700 and 50% in FNAM 2800 and 50% in RENR 2111 and 50% in RENR 2300 and 50% in RENR 2310 Completion of all Term 2 Courses course outline | 4.0
FNAM 3231 | Technical Projects 1 This course provides students with the essential skills and knowledge to conduct effective research and manage projects successfully. In Technical Projects 1, students create a comprehensive project proposal and safety plan while working productively with other individuals in a team environment. Students will learn how to formulate clear research goals and objectives, evaluate the credibility of various data sources, and conduct comprehensive literature reviews. The course emphasizes analytical skills for interpreting research results and drawing meaningful conclusions. Students will also gain practical experience in project management, including proposal development, work scheduling, progress reporting, and meeting management. Prerequisite(s): Completion of all first year courses. course outline | 3.0
FNAM 3800 | Forest Management and Indigenous Perspectives ​Effective forest management in British Columbia requires understanding and integrating diverse perspectives. This course explores the complex interplay between Indigenous rights, legal frameworks, professional responsibilities, and government policy in shaping forest management practices. Students will gain a critical understanding of how these perspectives intersect and influence decision-making in the BC forestry sector, including various land tenure types and forms of private land management in BC. By examining historical and contemporary contexts, analyzing current events, and engaging with ethical considerations, this course equips students with the knowledge and skills to navigate the complexities of forest management in a manner that balances ecological, social, and economic considerations.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in FNAM 2200 and 50% in FNAM 2400 and 50% in FNAM 2600 and 50% in FNAM 2700 and 50% in FNAM 2800 and 50% in RENR 2111 and 50% in RENR 2300 and 50% in RENR 2310 Completion of all Term 2 Courses course outline | 4.0
FNAM 3820 | Silviculture This course explores the principles and practices of silviculture the art and science of influencing forest establishment, composition, growth, and quality. Students will develop a comprehensive understanding of forest ecology, stand dynamics, and silvical characteristics of commercial tree species. Emphasis will be placed on applying the Biogeoclimatic Ecosystem Classification (BEC) system to inform silvicultural decision-making and develop sustainable forest management strategies. Students will learn to assess site conditions, evaluate stand structure, and recommend appropriate silvicultural systems and regeneration methods to achieve specific management objectives. The management objectives for stands and forests include biological diversity, cultural heritage, fish & riparian, forage & associated plant communities, recreation, resource features, soils, timber, visual quality, water quality, and wildlife. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FNAM 2810 course outline | 5.0
MATH 2453 | Statistics for Natural Resources ​This is an introductory level course in statistics. Topics include descriptive statistics (including measures of central tendency and variation, and appropriate graphical displays of data); probability distributions; inferences from one or two samples (hypothesis testing and confidence intervals); linear correlation and regression. Additional topics may include chi-squared tests for independence and homogeneity. These methods will be applied to examples from the natural resource field. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1455 course outline | 4.0
Level 4 | Credits
Complete 22.0 credits of common courses and 6.0 credits from either the Commercial Stream or the Urban Stream: Courses common to both streams
FNAM 3400 | Forest Engineering and Operations 2 This course equips students with the essential skills and knowledge to plan and execute sustainable forest operations, building upon the observational and problem-solving skills developed in FNAM 2400. Students will learn to assess harvesting opportunities and constraints using topographic interpretation, digital tools, and resource databases. They will gain proficiency in industry-standard surveys and data collection techniques cutblock planning and layout that will facilitate the expertise required to prepare comprehensive harvest plans that align with current permits, legislation, and policies in British Columbia. The course also emphasizes evaluating the effectiveness of remedial actions for roads and crossing structures, considering their long-term impact on forest management objectives and sustainability. Finally, students will analyze operational costs for various forestry activities using engineering economics principles to determine cost-effective solutions. Prerequisite(s): 50% in FNAM 2200 and 50% in FNAM 2400 and 50% in FNAM 2600 and 50% in FNAM 2700 and 50% in FNAM 2800 and 50% in RENR 2111 and 50% in RENR 2300 and 50% in RENR 2310 Completion of all Term 2 Courses course outline | 5.0
FNAM 4231 | Technical Projects 2 Building upon the project proposal and safety plan developed in Technical Projects 1, this course provides students with hands-on experience in implementing an applied research project in the field of Natural Resources. Students will focus on field data collection, analysis, and presentation skills while working collaboratively in a team environment. Students will gain experience in executing field research, collecting data, analyzing research results, drawing meaningful conclusions, and connecting findings back to project goals. They will gain experience in collaborating effectively with team members, recording relevant information in various formats (including field notes, journals, meeting minutes, and reports), and liaising with project partners. At the end of the course, students will create a final project report and deliver a compelling presentation to communicate research findings to a knowledgeable and critical audience. Prerequisite(s): FNAM 3231 course outline | 6.0
FNAM 4600 | Forest Health and Climate Change ​This course critically examines the urgent and complex interactions between forest health and climate change. Building on foundational skills from FNAM 2600, students will explore how a changing climate is increasing the vulnerability of BC’s forests to insects, animals, diseases, and wildfires. The course will also critically examine the role of forest management in both mitigating climate change and adapting to its effects. Throughout the course, we will discuss policy implications and current research on climate change adaptation and mitigation in forestry. Through lectures, case studies, and hands-on analysis of real-world data, including aerial surveys, students will learn to identify trends in major forest disturbance agents and assess their impact on forest ecosystems. Students will develop practical skills in analyzing forest health data, assessing the impact of disturbance agents, and developing adaptive management strategies for maintaining and improving forest health in a changing climate.​ ​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 2155 and 50% in FNAM 3200 and 50% in FNAM 3231 and 50% in FNAM 3400 and 50% in FNAM 3800 and 50% in FNAM 3820 and 50% in MATH 2453 Completion of all Term 3 Courses course outline | 3.0
FNAM 4670 | Wildland and Community Fire Management Wildfire is an increasingly critical factor in forest management, particularly with factors such as the expanding wildland-urban interface and climate change. This course provides a comprehensive approach to wildfire management, blending Indigenous knowledge and Western science to equip students with practical skills for mitigating wildfire risk. Students will learn to assess wildfire hazards in diverse environments, from community interfaces to forested areas, and develop holistic plans that prioritize community safety and ecological integrity. The course will explore the development and implementation of Community Wildfire Protection Plans as a key strategy for collaborative risk reduction. Through examining historical and current fire management practices, students will gain a critical understanding of the complexities of wildfire management in the context of natural resource management. Prerequisite(s): FNAM 3600 course outline | 4.0
FNAM 4810 | Applied Silviculture This hands-on course focuses on developing practical skills for conducting essential silviculture surveys and assessments. Students will gain proficiency in applying standardized provincial procedures to plan, execute, and report on various milestone surveys, including “regen delay” and “free growing” assessments. The course will also cover a range of other critical silviculture surveys, such as planting quality inspection, survival surveys, stocking surveys, plantability assessments, and brush competition assessments. Emphasis will be placed on accurate data collection, detailed record-keeping, and the compilation of field data to determine stocking status and inform silvicultural decision-making. This course, in combination with appropriate work experience, will prepare students to successfully pass the Province of B.C. Silvicultural Surveyor Accreditation exam. Prerequisite(s): FNAM 3820 course outline | 4.0
Commercial Stream Only
FNAM 4920 | Forest Products and Resources ​Our forests and natural areas are rich environments that can produce a wide range of cultural, ecological and economic benefits which go far beyond conventional timber values. These additional natural resources are often known as non-timber forest products (NTFP) and are a multi-million dollar industry that can be managed sustainably alongside timber objectives. Non-timber forest products include a wide range of commodities including forest-based foods, ornamental products, and plant extracts used to make pharmaceuticals and personal care products. These forest resources are important for many different people, including Indigenous communities, small business owners, wild harvesters, tourists, and the public. This course introduces timber and non-timber forest products that are harvested and distributed in BC and beyond, as well as the facilities that produce the end products. Students will learn about the fundamental economics that drive commodity versus specialty products and the pertinent legislation for the sustainable management and harvesting of forest products.​ ​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 2155 and 50% in FNAM 3200 and 50% in FNAM 3231 and 50% in FNAM 3400 and 50% in FNAM 3800 and 50% in FNAM 3820 and 50% in MATH 2453 Completion of all Term 3 Courses course outline | 6.0
Urban Stream Only
FNAM 4910 | Urban Forest Management and Arboriculture ​Urban forests provide multiple roles and benefits to communities including climate resilience, human well-being, habitat and biodiversity. They can be described on a continuum from a single tree to a group of trees, to a forest. As a discipline, urban forestry draws from the fields of arboriculture and forestry and often intersects with the built environment – as well as those disciplines that contribute to the built environment, including urban planning, civil engineering, and architecture. Because of this interdisciplinary and evolving space, managing the urban forest requires expertise in both the natural and social sciences, as well as an understanding of the competing land use and management objectives at play. In this course, students will learn how to manage trees and natural areas in the urban environment, as well as what that means considering changing values, goals/objectives and regional bylaws. Insight into tree biology and physiology, tree selection, preservation, and the specific roles of trees will be provided. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 2155 and 50% in FNAM 3200 and 50% in FNAM 3231 and 50% in FNAM 3400 and 50% in FNAM 3800 and 50% in FNAM 3820 and 50% in MATH 2453 Completion of all Term 3 Courses course outline | 6.0
Total Credits: | 112.0
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
### Program length
Two years, full-time for a total of 4 terms.
This program and the courses within it are not available in a part-time format.
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
The program is delivered in a combination of lecture, lab, and outside field activities. You will be spending much of the two years learning hands-on field skills in all types of weather conditions. Activities may take place on the BCIT Burnaby campus, at local parks, nearby field sites, such as the BCIT Woodlot in Maple Ridge, the Chilliwack Valley, or the North Shore Mountains. Multi-day field trips to locations throughout BC are typically incorporated into second-year classes.
### Elective streams
In Level 3 you will have a choice of one of two elective streams as your area of focus in Level 4.
Commercial Forestry Stream: Forest Products and Resources
Our forests and natural areas are rich environments that can produce a wide range of cultural, ecological, and economic benefits which go far beyond conventional timber values. These additional natural resources are often known as non-timber forest products (NTFP) and are a multimillion-dollar industry that can be managed sustainably alongside timber objectives. Non-timber forest products include a wide range of commodities including forest-based foods, ornamental products, and plant extracts used to make pharmaceuticals and personal care products. These forest resources are important for many different people, including Indigenous communities, small business owners, wild harvesters, tourists, and the public. This course introduces timber and non-timber forest products that are harvested and distributed in BC and beyond, as well as the facilities that produce the end products. Students will learn about the fundamental economics that drive commodity versus specialty products and the pertinent legislation for the sustainable management and harvesting of forest products.
Urban Forestry Stream: Urban Forest Management and Arboriculture
Urban forests provide multiple roles and benefits to communities including climate resilience, human well-being, habitat, and biodiversity. They can be described on a continuum from a single tree to a group of trees, to a forest. As a discipline, urban forestry draws from the fields of arboriculture and forestry and often intersects with the built environment – as well as those disciplines that contribute to the built environment, including urban planning, civil engineering, and architecture. Because of this interdisciplinary and evolving space, managing the urban forest requires expertise in both the natural and social sciences, as well as an understanding of the competing land use and management objectives at play.
In this course, students will learn how to manage trees and natural areas in the urban environment, as well as what that means considering changing values, goals/objectives, and regional bylaws. Insight into tree biology and physiology, tree selection, preservation, and the specific roles of trees will be provided.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
### Continue your education
Laddering opportunities exist to the BCIT Bachelor of Technology or Science programs in Ecological Restoration , Geographic Information Systems , and Environmental Engineering . Students need to meet specific conditions to enter each program. For details, please contact the respective program heads.
Post-diploma transfer agreements are currently in development for degree programs at Canadian universities with undergraduate forestry degree programs and natural resource management degrees at University of Northern British Columbia, Thompson Rivers University, Royal Roads University, and the University of Alberta.
## Graduating & Jobs
### Job opportunities
Career prospects for resource technologists are evolving and projected to remain strong. The FNAM program will prepare you for a wide variety of employment opportunities, including within the municipal, regional, provincial, and federal governments, as well as within the environmental consulting sector and various natural resource industry sectors.
As a resource technologist, you can work anywhere in BC or beyond, and be paid to explore nature by hiking, driving 4x4s and ATVs, boating, or flying in planes and helicopters. There is often seasonal work or year-long job opportunities to choose from. In the traditional forestry sector graduates will be qualified to work in the areas of:
- Forest Measurements and Inventory
- Forest Protection and Forest Health
- Forest Engineering
- Silviculture
Alternatively, you may work as a natural areas practitioner in a municipality if an urban setting is your preference. Here you can practice land stewardship in local parks, forests and trail systems and be amazed at all that the urban forest provides for nearby residents and communities.
The field of Urban Forestry includes:
- Urban forest management
- Trail development and maintenance
- Invasive species management
- Arboriculture
- Climate change adaptation
- Wildfire management in the Urban Interface
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Forest and Natural Areas Management
### Professional associations
Graduates of the Forest and Natural Areas Management program will be eligible to enrol with the Forest Professionals BC to become Registered Forest Technologists (RFT) or with the BC Institute of Agrologists to become a Technical Agrologist (TAg). With additional relevant work experience, FNAM graduates can apply to become a Certified Arborist through the International Society of Arboriculture.
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
### Program Head
Julia Alards–Tomalin, DiplT, BTech, MEd, ISA Certified Arborist
Contact Information Faculty and Program Head, Forest and Natural Areas Management Tel: 604-432-8857 Email: Jalardstomalin@bcit.ca
Julia Alards-Tomalin is the Program Head for the Forest and Natural Areas Management diploma program at BCIT. Julia is an ISA Certified Arborist and holds the ISA Tree Risk Assessment Qualification. With an academic background in Forestry (BCIT) and Ecological Restoration (BCIT) and a Master of Education (SFU), her expertise spans horticulture, arboriculture, soils, wetlands, and urban forestry. She has co-published two papers in the journal Wetland Science and Practice, delivered a webinar for the Society of Wetland Scientists, and regularly speaks at conferences and other events. Beyond her academic role, Julia co-founded Echo Ecological Enterprises, a women-owned firm dedicated to restoring degraded ecosystems across the Lower Mainland-Fraser Valley area. A recognized leader in Open Education, she received the BCIT Teaching Excellence Award in Open Education and has co-created innovative Open Education Resources, including the Interviews with Plants YouTube channel and the award-winning textbook, Buds, Branches and Bark: A Guide to Winter ID in the Pacific Northwest.
### Faculty
Alexia Constantinou, MSc, BSc
Contact Information Faculty, Forest and Natural Areas Management Tell: 604-412-7530 Email: aconstantinou@bcit.ca
Alexia is an instructor in the FNAM and Ecological Restoration programs at BCIT, specializing in research projects and wildlife. She is also a PhD candidate in the Applied Conservation Macro Ecology Lab at the University of Victoria, supported by Alkali Resource Management, Esk’etemc and the Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship. Her research focuses on fishers and porcupines, responses to landscape change, and ways to improve habitat by working with First Nations, fire, and industry. Alexia also serves as co-chair of the Conservation Affairs Committee for the BC Chapter of the Wildlife Society and as Student Director for the Martes Working Group. When she’s not working, Alexia spends most of her time paddling, running with her dog, Coyote, or trying to stay rubber side down on a mountain bike.
Elise Galuska, Dipl. T., BSc., MSc. (In-progress)
Contact Information Faculty, Forest and Natural Areas Management Tell: 604-451-6803 Email: elise_galuska@bcit.ca
Born in Burnaby, Elise currently resides in Squamish, BC. She is a dedicated environmental professional with over 10 years of multi-disciplinary experience in ecological restoration, outdoor leadership, and conservation. Currently pursuing a Master of Science in Environmental Practice at Royal Roads University, she serves as an Assistant Instructor in the Forest and Natural Resources Diploma Program at BCIT. Her background is supported by a Bachelor of Science in Environmental Practice, a Diploma in Fish, Wildlife, and Recreation, and a Certificate in Adventure Tourism.
Beyond her professional roles, Elise is an avid birder, backcountry skier, and rock climber. She translates her passion for the outdoors into meaningful advocacy, working to increase accessibility in mountain spaces through her involvement with Vancouver Adaptive Snow Sports. As an active member of the Spearhead Huts Society and the Alpine Club of Canada, she supports the development and management of sustainable backcountry experiences. Whether organizing field days for students or volunteering with citizen science projects, Elise combines technical expertise with a lifelong commitment to learning, environmental stewardship, and inclusive outdoor recreation.
Shannon Guichon
Email: shannon_guichon@bcit.ca
Shannon Guichon is a faculty member teaching forest ecology and soil science, with a focus on field skills in soil identification. She also delivers workshops in plant identification.
She brings a strong background in foundational biology and applied forest science, with particular emphasis on soil ecosystems, fungal ecology, and forest health. She also brings extensive experience in laboratory and research management, having supervised work in metagenomics, bioinformatics, microbiology, and field-based ecological research.
She holds a BSc in Biology, an MSc in Botany specializing in mycology, phylogenetics, and molecular approaches to forest soil ecology, and a PhD in Forest Science. Her doctoral research examined forest regeneration, including the role of mycorrhizal inoculum in seedling survival and productivity, and the role of fungal communities in shaping successional trajectories across forest ecosystem types.
Shannon also holds a Provincial Instructor Diploma in adult education and is a formally trained learning strategist. Her teaching is grounded in student-centered, evidence-based approaches that support engagement and success across diverse learning environments.
Maddy MacDonald (she/her) RPF, MSFM
Contact Information Faculty, Forest and Natural Areas Management Tel: 604-454-2268 Email: maddy_macdonald@bcit.ca
Maddy is an arborist and forest professional with a background in urban forest management. She has felt at home in BC’s coastal forest from an early age but fell in love with ‘trees’ as a career path while tree planting in the interior. Maddy is passionate about people and forest health, and the various intersections of these subjects. She values learning from other people’s experiences and relationships to the land and believes in a community-based approach to the care of natural areas. Maddy enjoys spending time learning about trees and fungi + insects, ecosystem biodiversity, and human health & wellbeing.
Dyrian Olson, BNRS, RPF
Justin Perry, DipT, PPL, TFT, Accredited Silviculture Surveyor, RPAS Flight Reviewer
Jason Pon, DiplT, BSF, RPF
Contact Information Faculty, Forest and Natural Areas Management T: 604-412-7520 Email: Jpon4@bcit.ca
Jason is a Registered Professional Forester (RPF) with the FPBC holding a Bachelors of Science in Forestry through joint studies at BCIT and UBC. Before joining the BCIT faculty, his career in the forestry industry spans practice in forest harvest planning, silviculture, and forest inventory and analysis to name a few. His diverse background also includes experience in urban forestry, where he worked as an arborist managing trees on both private and municipal lands. Jason is passionate in helping students pursue a rewarding career in the natural resource sector by fostering innovative and critical thinking for the betterment of the environment and future generations.
Alex Tait, DiplT, BEng
Contact Information Faculty, Forest and Natural Areas Management T:604-451-6966 Email: atait4@bcit.ca
Alex has worked in a variety of natural resource disciplines in BC including forest engineering, silviculture, and vegetation management. Before getting into forestry he worked at a structural engineering firm, designing wood frame walls, columns, and beams. Years later, working in forestry he got to see where all that building material comes from, how it’s harvested, replanted, and tended.
As a graduate of the FNAM program, Alex is proud to be back at BCIT teaching the next generation of Forest Techs. He is also very involved with Open Education at BCIT, contributing his expertise to projects including: Buds , Branches , and Bark (Winter Plant ID) , a Visual Library of the Ecosystems of BC , as well as running the Plant Identification YouTube channel Interviews with Plants . Alex lives in Burnaby and loves hiking with his partner and daughter.
### Staff
Giti Abouhamzeh
### Advisory committee
- Chris Gruenwald, Cascadia Environmental Services Ltd.
- Tom Bruderer, BC Forest Practices Board
- Dale Jones, Tolko Industries
- Andy Low, Frontline Operations
- Andrew MacLellan, BC Plant Health Care
- Jonas Joe, BC Wildfire Service
## Graduates Testimonials
Caitey Gilchrist, BSc in ER (Grad Class of 2023)
### Urban Forestry Technician
When I started FNAM, I was looking for a major career change that would allow me to spend more time outdoors and help the natural environment. The program was jam-packed with hands-on learning and taught me practical field skills from the very beginning. Those skills helped me find work between school years and following graduation. Since then, I’ve worked across multiple disciplines, including invasive species management, ecological restoration, parks and horticulture, and urban forestry. Most recently, I’ve been working as an urban forestry technician for a consulting company, a role that involves a healthy balance of field and office work. My days are varied: I might be monitoring trees during construction, researching rare plants, measuring trees in urban forests, or checking in on beaver activity at restoration sites. FNAM prepared me for a successful career change while also giving me a broader perspective on how we can make an ecological difference in urban forests.
### Antoine Kerouac-Dube, TFT (Grad Class of 2023)
### Silviculture Supervisor
After graduating from FNAM, I worked on Vancouver Island as an Operations Field Planner, where I was responsible for supporting the development of resource roads and cutblocks. In this role, I applied many of the transferable “hard” skills I gained, including road and cutblock layout, data collection and entry using industry-standard software such as RoadEng and ArcGIS, and identifying key resource features such as bear dens and goshawk nests.
When my fixed-term contract on the Island was completed, I relocated to Kimberley, BC, and began working as a Silviculture Field Assistant. In this position, I further developed the skills learned during FNAM by conducting even-aged and multi-storied silviculture surveys, identifying forest health issues, and entering field data into Land Resource Manager (LRM) to make help make critical land-base decisions.
This experience led to my current role as Silviculture Supervisor, where I am responsible for meeting all silviculture obligations across a ~16,000 hectare area. My responsibilities include making regeneration and free-growing declarations, prescribing treatments such as brushing and site preparation, and managing multiple contractors throughout the year. I’ve found that many of the “soft” skills developed during my time at BCIT have been especially valuable in this role, including written communication (e.g., drafting rationales for amendments), presentation skills for pre-work meetings, and strong time management to meet key regulatory deadlines.
### James Krahn, TFT (Grad Class of 2022)
### Wildlife Risk Reduction Technician
After completing FNAM, I worked on a BC Wildfire Service unit crew, where I combined my wildfire experience with the skills developed through FNAM to transition into a Technician role within the Wildfire Risk Reduction program in the Rocky Mountain Forest District. I began articling shortly after graduating in 2022 and am currently working toward my RFT designation, with anticipated completion in summer 2026.
I have held this position for the past three years. My responsibilities include contract management, stakeholder engagement, operational planning, drone operations and photogrammetry, GIS mapping and data management, prescribed burn planning and delivery as well as a wide range of additional technical and field-based duties. FNAM provided a strong foundation and the confidence necessary to successfully launch my career in forestry. So thank you all for teaching this great program.
### Kyle Habkirk, RFT (Grad class of 2021)
### Field Planner
After graduating from the FNAM program, I was a summer student for Mosaic Forest Management. After my summer position ended, I was hired by Meridian Forest Services as a Junior Engineer. We worked primarily on layout contracts for BCTS in the Alberni and San Juan areas of Vancouver Island. After one year with Meridian, I returned to Mosaic as their Operations Intern. This role was focused on supporting the area planners and contract managers of Mosaic’s South Island operation. After two years in this role, I was promoted to my current role as a staff Field Planner. My job is primarily laying out cutblocks and roads in areas that require closer attention (ex. socially sensitive, commercial thinning, sensitive watersheds). Mosaic has also allowed me to earn my commercial boating license (SVOP) to operate the company crew boat for accessing remote areas.
## News
###
BCIT students explore sustainable forestry and estuary restoration in Squamish
The Forest and Natural Areas Management program uses the Sea to Sky Corridor as its hands-on outdoor classroom, touring several local sites.
Read more
Using drones for forest management: Insights into a BCIT student’s fieldwork
This past summer, Easton was invited by Fish, Wildlife and Recreation faculty, Justin Perry , to join him as an RPAS (Remotely Piloted Aircraft System) Pilot Assistant for Aeriosense Technologies. Together, they travelled to Iskut, Cape Scott, and Tumbler Ridge, using drone technology for utility inspections and forest management projects.
Read more
BC campus Award for Excellence in Open Education: Julia Alards-Tomalin
Her passion for open education has led her to create several open educational resources (OER) and to introduce her colleagues and help them transition their courses to OER.
Read More
BCIT Forestry Students awarded at BC First Nations Forestry Conference
BCIT Forest and Natural Areas Management (FNAM) students Heather Clark and Tanya Steinauer received the Future Faces of Forestry award at the 2025 BC First Nations Forestry Conference .
Read More
Holistic Wildfire Management: Seeing Fire Through Multiple Lenses | Justin Perry | TEDxAbbotsford
## Contact Us
Julia Alards–Tomalin , DiplT, BTech, MEd, ISA Certified Arborist® Program Head Tel: 604-432-8857 Email: Jalardstomalin@bcit.ca
Giti Abouhamzeh Program Assistant Tel: 778-331-1392 Email: Giti_Abouhamzeh@bcit.ca
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
