URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/forensic-investigation-general-criminalistics-option-advanced-certificate-part-time-526bascert/
Title: Forensic Investigation (General Criminalistics Option)
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Forensic Investigation (General Criminalistics Option)
Advanced Certificate Part-time School of Computing and Academic Studies
## Overview
Note: This program is currently under review. New courses are in development that will either replace or complement existing courses. New applications for the program will not be accepted until the review is complete. For more information, contact the Program Assistant .
## Entrance Requirements
### About Flexible Learning
Flexible Learning offers a variety of courses and programs in different delivery modes and locations to customize your learning at your own pace. You can review course prerequisites on our website and if you meet them, you’ll be able to register for that available course immediately. Some courses may require departmental approval or formal acceptance into the program. BCIT Flexible Learning courses are offered during the Winter (January), Spring/Summer (April), and Fall (September) terms.
### Application processing
Applications are accepted throughout the year with intake options available during the following periods:
Intake | Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
Winter (January) | February 1st* | Domestic students: January 2nd* International students: November 1st*
Spring/Summer (April) | May 1st* | Domestic students: April 1st* International students: February 1st*
Fall (September) | October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intakes may fill before the deadline. If you are currently registered in a course or planning to start, submit your application early to secure your spot in the program.
### Entrance requirements
Most courses may be taken for professional development purposes on an individual course basis without formally applying to the program. To request approval to take a course for professional development, email the Program Assistant identifying which course you'd like to take and attach your current resume along with a brief explanation of how it pertains to your occupation or area of studies.
Applicants must meet all entrance requirements to be accepted.
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Completion of one of the following options prior to admission: Option 1: A two-year diploma (minimum of 60.0 credits) or associate or bachelor's degree from a recognized post-secondary institution or Option 2: A minimum of 60.0 credits of courses fulfilling the requirements of the first two years of study towards the completion of a defined undergraduate degree from a recognized post-secondary institution (e.g. BA, BSc, BComm, BASc, etc) or Option 3: A minimum of 60.0 credits of courses from one or more recognized post-secondary institutions (minimum of 18 credits at second-year or higher level) or Option 4: Certification as a police constable and completion of 30.0 credits from a recognized post-secondary institution or Option 5: Meeting of alternate entry/exception policy* * Applicants must contact the Program Assistant for particulars. A completed pre-entry assessment document from the program area must be uploaded with your application. Processing times depend on individual assessment and could take up to three months to complete.
- A Criminal Record Check [PDF] (attachment letter to bring to Police department)
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
### Recommended for success
Attend an information session prior to applying for this program. For more information and to register for an information session visit the Forensics website .
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program does not meet the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is therefore not eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
( CIPC : 43.0406)
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
Ongoing Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) intakes: January, April, and September .
### Prior Learning Assessment & Recognition (PLAR)
Prior Learning Assessment Recognition (PLAR) lets student use knowledge and skills learned outside recognized programs to gain exemption for particular courses in the program. Contact the Program Assistant for details.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Costs & Supplies
### Tuition fees
Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) tuition is charged on a course-by-course basis. Please see the Flexible Learning Tuition & Fees page for more information on domestic and international tuitions.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Program matrix
Check current availability of courses for this program.
1. Complete 6.0 - 8.0 credits from the following Legal Framework - Common Core courses: | Credits
FSCT 7001 | Forensic Applications of Criminal Law 1: Legal Procedures The Canadian criminal justice system is an adversarial system which pits the accused person against the State. The adversarial process follows a well-defined series of procedural steps from initial complaint to verdict and sentencing. This course provides a detailed examination of the legal procedures that govern criminal proceedings in Canada including the tendering of evidence by both Crown and defence, with a particular emphasis on issues applicable to forensic investigators and technicians. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 2.5
FSCT 7002 | Criminal Law 2: Legal Evidence Forensic evidence is subject to all the general rules related to the admissibility of evidence in the criminal trial process and is also subject to certain unique rules of scrutiny. This course examines the fundamental laws of evidence within the adversarial process and provides a context for the expert in their role as witness. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 7001 course outline | 2.5
and one of the following
FSCT 7005 | Introducing Forensic Evidence at Trial Through a practical exploration of the stages of a mock investigation and consequent trial, this course illuminates the vital role forensic evidence plays in criminal proceedings. The course will put particular emphasis on issues relating to the admissibility of forensic evidence and the evidentiary weight that results from the manner of identification, isolation, collection, and analysis of such evidence. Students working as members of an investigative team will locate and gather evidence, interview witnesses, identify a suspect, and formulate a theory of culpability. At a subsequent mock trial, each student will be examined by Crown and defence counsel on their role in the investigation. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 7002 course outline | 1.0
FSCT 7004 | Business Law for Commercial Crime Investigation The course introduces the investigator to the legal underpinnings of business transactions. The civil law of contracts, sales of goods, secured transactions and business organizations are explored, along with the legal context within which ordinary commerce occurs and which determines the existence of a possibly criminal commercial transaction. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 7002 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8530 | Law for Computer and IT Professionals This course is designed to introduce students to the dominant legal issues arising in relation to computers, Information Technology and the Internet. It is also designed to provide students with basic legal research skills they can use to monitor developments in the law relevant to their interests or job functions. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
2. Complete 16.0 - 18.0 credits from the following Specialized Concentrations and electives: (Students who have completed 6.0 credits of Legal Framework are required to complete 18.0 credits of Specialized Concentration/Electives, those who have completed 8.0 credits of Legal Framework courses are required to complete 16.0 credits of Specialized Concentration/Electives) | Credits
Complete 12.0 - 18.0 credits from the following Specialized Concentration: Investigative Framework Complete 0.0 - 3.0 credits of the following:
FSCT 7210 | Introduction to Commercial Crimes in Canada This course provides an introduction to commercial crimes in Canada. Three main issues are considered: theory (the criminal code section and the fundamental legal principles underlying the offence); practical criteria (identifying the priority elements of proof that are required from a practical point of view) and satisfying the criteria (reviewing the usual types of evidence required to prove the offence). Primary commercial crimes considered include: fraud, theft, counterfeit currency, credit and debit card offences, internet based frauds, conspiracy and money laundering. Others, briefly introduced topics include: stock market manipulation and other securities related offences, criminal breach of trust, custom and excise offences, secret commissions, planned bankruptcy and possession of goods obtained by crime. Reference is made to various industry issues such as banking regulations as they impact on the offences being studied. In addition, 21st century issues such as the global economy, telemarketing, the cable industry and gaming are also discussed. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 7220 | Introduction to Computer Crime Studies This course will provide the student with an introduction to the use of computers in policing. The material will be broken down into five sections: 1. Computing fundamentals and computer history; 2. Networks, networking technologies, the Internet; 3. Security technologies, tools and techniques; 4. Computer crime, investigative techniques, forensic examination; and 5. Administrative computing in the police environment. The course will provide an overview of these areas and provide enough information to allow investigators to make intelligent decisions when confronted with computer systems, computer-based crime, proposals for new computing projects, or to assist their agencies in working with the community. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 7230 | Forensic Interviewing 1 The outcome of most investigations usually depends on the information supplied by victims, witnesses and suspects to an investigator. The amount and veracity of this information is of utmost importance. In this course, investigators learn methods and techniques available for interviewing victims, witnesses and suspects to obtain proper, informative and legal statements that will both aid in the investigation and be acceptable to the court. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 2.0
FSCT 7310 | Crime and Incident Scene Investigation ​The course covers the major areas of crime and incident scene examination, in order to give an in-depth understanding in theories of searching and in dealing with the entire range of physical evidence located during the various types of crime and incident scene searches. Students will be exposed to the fundamentals of processing various scenes from start to finish, including in-depth knowledge regarding the theory of scene searching, and in dealing with the entire range of scene specific evidence that can be located and recovered. Students will learn how to forensically photograph, and document scene exhibits and will be exposed to the practice of proper evidence detection, collection and documentation.​ Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 7320 | Introduction to Forensic Science This course provides on overview of the fundamental principles of forensic science and its origins. Techniques and instrumentation employed by forensic experts and methodology used to maintain continuity and integrity of evidence are examined. The role of physical evidence in civil and criminal trials is also discussed. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
Applied Management Complete 0.0 - 3.0 credits of the following:
FSCT 7110 | Case Management for Major Crime Investigation This course is designed to provide the forensic investigator the concepts of case management and the application of case management methods in organizing investigative teams, planning investigative actions and analyzing evidence and intelligence. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 7120 | Project Management for Investigations There are two management concepts that have historically tended to produce very successful outcomes when applied to any endeavour, including conducting complex criminal or civil investigations. These concepts, using the strength of teams and project management, each have followers. The focus of this course will be to expose you to both concepts to enable you to develop and experience an organized approach to any type of investigation. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 7130 | Business Continuity Planning Management for Information Technology The course is divided into the following major modules: 1) Concepts and processes of business continuity planning. 2) Risk Assessment. 3) Business Impact Analysis. 4) Technology requirements and techniques. 5) Developing recovery scenarios and plans. 6) Maintaining and testing plans. 7) Use of templates and software to facilitate the development, maintenance and testing of BCP plans. Course instruction may also include guest speakers from local industry, instructional videotapes and off-site visits to demonstrate and reinforce course material. Students will work through a practical assignment where they will develop a real-world business continuity / disaster recovery plan. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
Forensic Science - Biological Aspects
FSCT 8110 | Human Remains Recovery This course demonstrates principles of forensic archaeology and methodical scene examination, showing how these principles are used in the search, excavation and recovery of human remains. The theories and methodologies employed are explored during lectures as well as during the field component. During the field component of the course (3x 8 hour days), teams will learn to process a scene from start to finish, including: initial scene assessment, surface scatter search, mapping, measuring, recording, gridding, screening, excavation and recovery of the remains. The course will conclude with a de-briefing session. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8120 | Forensic Odontology This course demonstrates the ways Forensic Odontology may assist in the resolution of criminal cases involving dental evidence. It provides an opportunity for technologists to learn the principles of handling dental evidence and the physical comparison and analysis of dental exhibits. A combination of lecture and laboratory format is used to demonstrate the various aspects of forensic dental science and to allow experience in using various materials to collect the physical, biological and photographic evidence used by the forensic odontologist. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 2.0
FSCT 8130 | Forensic Pathology This course provides the basic legal and scientific factors relevant to forensic pathology. The medical examiner and coroner systems are examined. The course determination and the presentation of pathological findings as evidence in court. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 1.0
FSCT 8140 | Forensic Entomology Forensic entomology is the study of insects associated with a human corpse, usually a homicide victim, to determine elapsed time since death. It can also be used to determine whether the body has been moved, disturbed after death, used drugs prior to death, etc. It is the most accurate and frequently the only method of determining elapsed time since death after 72 hours. The course provides the students with an overall understanding of entomology and its applications to criminal investigations, collecting insect evidence at a crime scene in a manner defensible in court, and the value of insect evidence and the results which can be expected from an entomologist. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8150 | Forensic Biology: DNA Typing Theory This course provides instruction in forensic biology with a focus on current short tandem repeat (STR) technologies. The design of the course follows the logical progression of a forensic DNA case by including instruction in: evidence gathering and preservation techniques, the identification of biological evidence including presumptive and confirmatory testing, the extraction, quantitation and PCR amplification analysis strategies for common types of biological evidence (bodily fluids, hard and soft tissues and "touch" DNA), and the interpretation methods utilized for single-source profiles, mixed profiles, parentage and kinship scenarios. Each module also includes practical interpretation exercises based on real case work scenarios in order to underpin the theoretical aspects of this applied forensic discipline. Prerequisite(s): 3 credits of university/college biology course course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8160 | Forensic Biology: DNA Typing Applications With the advent of new molecular techniques, DNA is the material of choice for forensic analysis. The current technology of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) makes it possible to identify an individual with a high degree of accuracy. A series of lectures and laboratory exercises will show students the strength of this powerful technique and how it applies to law enforcement. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8150 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8170 | Human Osteology This course involves condensed, but comprehensive investigation of human skeletal anatomy. The emphasis is placed upon the practical identification of skeletal elements, and student participation in laboratory sessions is expected. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
Forensic Science - Chemical Aspects
FSCT 8210 | Explosive and Fire Accelerants The course involves the application of forensic science to the investigation of fires and explosions. It covers the legal framework which governs fire and explosion investigations and encompasses best practices for crime scene investigation for pertinent physical evidence, and its subsequent seizure and transportation to a forensic laboratory. Essential precautions against contamination of evidence are emphasised. Laboratory procedures are described. Case studies and demonstrations of typical physical evidence are used to illustrate the criteria for handling and examination of exhibits, and for selection and application of analytical instruments. The essence of forensic science examinations is the determination of the significance of analytical results, so this aspect of forensic reports and expert testimony is covered in depth, and students are taught best practices throughout. Problems which have arisen in casework from less than optimal practices are described, and the necessity for documentation of all steps in investigations of fires and explosions is strongly emphasized and illustrated. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 2.0
FSCT 8220 | Trace Chemical Evidence This course covers the role of the forensic laboratory in the investigation of fibres (which includes textiles and cordages) and glass involved in cases such as break and enter and theft, hit and run, assault, sexual assault, attempted murder and murder; paint that involves vehicles; and other less common types of chemical trace evidence. The forensic chemist's role in discussion of the potential and the proper handling of exhibit materials, laboratory examination and analysis, identification and interpretation of results, and understanding of laboratory reports for investigation and court purposes. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 2.0
FSCT 8230 | The Medicolegal Aspects of Alcohol This course examines the pharmacological and physiological effects of alcohol consumption on the human body. The theoretical basis and practical applications of various technologies, both laboratory based and field use based, that are currently utilized to determine blood alcohol concentration in the body will be thoroughly reviewed. Students will be given practical training in the usage of Approved Screening Devices and Evidentiary Breath Testing Instruments. Actual application and interpretation of the obtained blood alcohol concentration results within a courtroom setting will also be discussed and further reinforced by use of sample case studies. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8240 | Forensic Toxicology This course serves as an introduction to the analysis, interpretation and reporting of common drugs encountered by a practicing forensic toxicologist. Other topics that are explored include laboratory techniques and instrumentation, pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of common drugs including cannabis, CNS stimulants, Opioids, CNS depressants and novel psychoactive drugs, the application of forensic toxicology to post-mortem, sexual assault and impaired driving cases, and presenting expert testimony in court. Directed reading, practical quiz and participatory discussions will introduce you to the science of forensic toxicology. Prerequisite(s): 3 credits of university/college chemistry course. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8250 | Drug Analysis This laboratory course introduces the chemistry and analytical requirements for the testing of illicit and controlled drugs. The student will learn the characterization of drugs in typical street form including cannabis, cocaine and crack, heroin, designer drugs and hallucinogens, as well as how they are analyzed, and the requirements for their certification to be used in a court of law. The student will learn how to use various chemical tests, isolation and purification techniques, as well as chromatographic and spectroscopic techniques. Prerequisite(s): 3.0 credits of post-secondary chemistry. course outline | 3.0
Forensic Science - Physical Aspects
FSCT 8302 | Advanced Digital Imaging Techniques This course provides the students with advanced forensic digital imaging concepts, imaging handling policies and procedures for the purposes of preserving and maintaining the chain of custody during the investigative process. Various techniques of image enhancement, video surveillance, multiple snapshots for comparison and image formatting for internet and intranet communication are covered. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8360 course outline | 2.0
FSCT 8303 | Geographic Profiling 1 The course introduces the students to the theory, methodology and mathematical concepts in support of geographic profiling. Crime pattern theory, mental maps, crime hunting area concepts and supporting technology are also covered. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8304 | Geographic Profiling 2 This course builds on FSCT 8303 Geographic Profiling 1. This is a computer lab based course that focuses on using geographic profiling techniques applied to actual cases in property crime investigation. Emphasis is on analysis, jeopardy surface, peak geoprofile, scenario and strategy development and final report preparation. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8303 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8310 | Questioned Document Examination This course provides a broad overview of forensic document examination. It is intended for anyone who may have a need to interact with forensic document examiners, e.g. investigators, lawyers, corporate compliance officers, police and crime scene officers. The course will include the requirements needed to enable forensic document examiners to conduct examinations of signatures, handwriting, office printers, printing and other physical evidence relating to documents. NOTE: This course will not train students to become forensic document examiners. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8320 | The Science of Fingerprints - Theory This course covers the history of fingerprints as it relates to individualization; friction skin development; how to obtain a proper set of known fingerprint impressions; the Henry Classification System, the Auto-Class Classification System and Real Time Identification (RTID) System; fingerprint individualization with emphasis on Ridgeology; palm print individualization including the use of palmar flexion creases; procedures utilized in crime scene examination and recovery of fingerprints; chemical techniques for fingerprint detection; the Identification of Criminals Act; and the expert witness in the Canadian Court System. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8330 | Principles and Methods of Firearms and Toolmark Examination This course covers firearms and ammunition, serial number restoration, physical matching and comparison, range determination, gunshot wounds and exhibit handling. Emphasis is placed on firearm and tool mark identification to increase understanding of the uniqueness of tool marks as an aid in investigating and solving crimes. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8340 | Forensic Photography The multi-faceted field of Forensic Photography is used in diverse disciplines as Forensic Odontology, Dactyloscopy, Document Examination, Forensic Pathology and Forensic Tool Mark Examination. Forensic photography's role as well as its limitations are emphasized in this course. Students will be thoroughly immersed in the theory of photography, providing them with an understanding of the techniques which will be used in the practical exercise. Topics include crime scene photography, alternate light source photography, unltraviolet and infrared photography, photomicrography, macro photography, theory of light and photographic evidence in the courtroom. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8350 | Forensic Video Technologies This course provides students with an in-depth analysis of the uses and evidentiary value of both digital and analogue video. It analyzes the proliferation of video cameras in today's society and demonstrates to investigators how they can take advantage of this accurate and powerful source of evidence. Through site surveys, students will gain an increased awareness and understanding of the use of video surveillance technologies and techniques. Students interpret recent Supreme Court decisions. Investigators are challenged to look for video at every crime scene; learn how to use it, and how to apply proper rules of evidence in order to protect it for court. Students are shown how to optimize a video surveillance system so the full evidentiary potential is obtained. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8351 | CCTV and Forensic Examination This hands-on course provides the students with a thorough understanding of the latest in CCTV technology and system design. Using the latest in digital video forensic tools, students will learn techniques on how to extract, interpret, and clarify video evidence from both digital and analog CCTV sources for investigative purposes. A thorough understanding of the many different types of CCTV technology and systems being employed in today’s security environment will be explored. Students will evaluate the capabilities and limitations of CCTV recorded information for the purpose of forensic video examination and analysis. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8352 | Forensic Video Examinations This course provides the students the understanding of the problems faces by Law Enforcement Professionals with video evidence and addresses how Avid Xpress DV can address these problems. From the receipt of the evidence to the results of the examination, students will gain hands-on experience as a Forensic Video Examiner. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8351 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8353 | Forensic Video Analysis: Advanced Tools & Techniques This course provides the students a review of the latest trends and technologies in CCTV security and forensic video examinations. Students will complete an in-class forensic video examination project using Avid Xpress DV video processing techniques. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8421 and 60% in FSCT 8490 FSCT 8352 or equivalent. Contact department to determine equivalency. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8354 | Forensic Video Analysis: Photographic/Video Comparison Focuses on the technologies of comparing questioned and known objects, clothing and humans with videotaped images. The process of cataloguing class characteristics and unique characteristics in evidence will be examined. Using specialized computer software systems in a forensic lab environment, students develop a scientific work flow involving the analysis of video evidence, criminal case report writing and courtroom presentation. Prerequisite(s): FSCT 8350 or FSCT 8351 or equivalent. Contact department to determine equivalency. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8360 | Forensic Imaging Techniques This five-day hands-on workshop will introduce the user to the key features of Adobe Photoshop CS3 and Adobe Bridge for use in a law enforcement setting. This will include setting up a valid forensic workflow, utilizing best practices, testimony issues, and using Photoshop and Bridge for basic image adjustments as well as for clarification and analysis of fingerprints, questioned documents, footwear and tool marks, video and the preparation of courtroom presentations. Through a series of lectures and computer lab sessions, students will learn about relevant court issues, best practices for a forensic workflow, and valid forensic procedures for using Adobe Photoshop in the forensic environment. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
Economic Crime Investigation
FSCT 8401 | Loss Prevention and Risk Management This course provides students with an understanding of the importance of loss prevention as a tool to improve risk selection and loss experience. The course is designed to provide participants with knowledge of how to identify the factors that create losses, and use the information to establish a program to mitigate the frequency and severity of losses. The role of loss prevention and risk management in the corporate strategy is discussed. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8450 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8410 | Financial Crime Investigative Techniques This course is intended for students who are interested in investigating allegations of fraud in criminal, quasi-criminal or civil arenas. Investigative techniques covered are applicable in all three arenas. Students will conduct an investigation, from beginning to end, on a case of their choosing and document their findings in a court brief. The court brief serves as the final exam. This course includes the following topics: assessing complaints, Investigation Plans, drafting financial crime allegations, witness statements, document evidence, Search Warrants / Anton Piller Orders, undercover operations, money laundering, electronic surveillance techniques and court briefs. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 2.0
FSCT 8421 | Investigation of Securities Crimes This course introduces various Criminal Code and Securities Act infractions particular to the Canadian securities markets, and to the techniques used by the financial crimes investigator to identify, investigate, and prosecute these offences. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8430 | Organized Crime Analysis This course focuses on the various duties of a tactical analyst assigned to transnational and domestic organized crime group activity. You will learn how various crime networks and groups operate by reviewing past cases of criminal activity. You will apply various structured analytical techniques, at various stages of the crime or intelligence cycle, to several types of organized crime activities that operate outside and within Canada. You will use software to analyze and visualize your analysis, and develop logically sound arguments for investigation and intelligence purposes. You will use realistic data to test your analytical abilities during various assignments. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8436 Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8440 | Forensic Accounting This course provides some basic forensic accounting tools and techniques necessary to develop and report in financial information regarding criminal investigations. General topics such as expert independence, information sources, rules of documentary evidence, and financial interviewing are covered, as well as forensic accounting approaches to investigating a number of specific criminal offences. ACL software will be introduced and used for fraud investigation. There will be review of comprehensive fraud cases. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8450 | Investigation of Insurance Fraud 1 Students will learn that fraud schemes such as identity theft are becoming more sophisticated and widespread. Forensic science & technology play an increasing role in detecting, investigating and preventing fraudulent activities that potentially affect every person and every organization. While only a part of a bigger problem, this course will emphasize insurance fraud, as billion dollar industry in Canada. Traditional and scientific protocols to enhance investigative, behavioral and evidentiary matters will be introduced. Strategies will be developed to counter the effects of fraud based on the trends of our courts and society. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8460 | Corporate Fraud and Financial Crime This course provides students with a knowledge of some specific types of commercial fraud and abuse, including asset misappropriation, falsified statements, corruption, and conflict of interest. Characteristics of each type of abuse, as well as indicators, detection, and prevention, will be covered. Specialized topics, such as anti-competitive offences, risks involved in foreign operations, due diligence requirements, and anti-money-laundering and antiterrorism legislation are also canvassed. Topics of particular interest to investigators will be the use of computers in the detection of fraud, the conduct of internal (corporate) investigations, and the remedies available to organizations that have been victimized by commercial crime. The orientation of the course will be toward those who have responsibility for the prevention, detection, and investigation of commercial crime in a corporate/private-sector context. It will be of particular interest to students who are employed, or who may be considering a career, in the private sector, in an area such as security, internal audit, quality control, or risk management. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8440 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8470 | Investigation of Insurance Fraud 2 This course provides students with an in-depth look at how investigations are used to combat fraud in civil and criminal cases. Students will learn how the policy of insurance responds to those insured as well those whom the policy covers. We cover first and third party investigations as well as those involving internal or fidelity issues. A comprehensive look at selection and use of experts in the role of investigations and litigation will be explored in workshops. Exercises will be conducted to practice exercise interview, statement analysis and negotiation skills. A review of the Charter of Rights and litigation cases including the "Quida" case will be reviewed. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8450 course outline | 2.0
FSCT 8480 | Tactical Analysis 2 Students in this course will increase their skills in the analysis of deviant and criminal groups. Most of the class time is devoted to the study of a variety of social science theories (psychology, sociology, anthropology, political science) about deviant and criminal behaviour, and the corresponding supporting research. By understanding a multiple theories, the students' mental flexibility will increase. Using this information, students will be taught how to develop persuasive inductive and deductive arguments for their clients - arguments that challenge assumptions and poorly supported decisions. To communicate these arguments to their clients, the students will learn various styles of charts and graphs. In short, students will learn how to utilize social science information to create well supported and logically sound analytical products that are easy to understand. Students will learn how to develop a solid foundation from which they can confidently make predictions and recommendations about deviant and criminal behaviour. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8430 course outline | 2.0
FSCT 8490 | Forensic Data Analysis Forensic Data Analysis involves the examination of organizational data to identify patterns that match known fraud profiles. The patterns sought may be logical (e.g. vendors having the same mailing address as employees) and/or numerical and statistical (e.g. duplications of specific digits, digit patterns and combinations, specific numbers, and round numbers) patterns in corporate data. In addition, forensic data analysis involves the use of neural-net and other data mining technologies to gain knowledge regarding databases and to develop models for fraud detection, prediction, and prevention where known fraud patterns are lacking or obscure. Upon completing this course, students will be able to develop a fraud scenario, translate this scenario into a fraud profile, and apply appropriate detective tests to a corporate database. Students will be given the opportunity to employ proprietary computer-assisted audit software and data-mining software to practice databases for the purpose of applying their learned skills. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8460 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8491 | Fraudulent Financial Statements Beginning with coverage of the environment in which financial statement fraud occurs, students will proceed to learn how to use financial statements and other disclosures for the purpose of assessing the quality of financial reporting and identifying potential signals of manipulation. Students will then proceed to cover more complex issues, including business combinations, executive compensation and employee benefits, and the use and misuse of derivatives and special-purpose entities. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8421 and 60% in FSCT 8490 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8495 | Asset Recovery The recovery of misappropriated assets, or obtaining equivalent restitution, "closes the circle" of the fraud investigation process. Students who complete this course will be able to list and describe the options available for this purpose, including criminal prosecution, insurance recovery, and civil litigation; to discuss the circumstances in which each option would - and would not - be appropriate, and the advantages and disadvantages of each option; and to identify the range of professional expertise required to effect assets recovery in local, national, and transnational fact situations. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8460 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8520 | Social Media and Open-Source Investigative Techniques This course will provide you with the latest techniques used to effectively gather online information for investigative purposes relating to persons, companies, and other assets. You will be introduced to the methods of gathering online intelligence through social media platforms, search engines, and dark web searches. In addition, you will learn how to assess potential counter-intelligence concerns. Particular emphasis will be placed on heightened awareness and the “paper trail” investigators may leave behind when using internet investigation tools. Approaches to maintain privacy and security when carrying out online investigations will also be explored and a variety of online search methodologies introduced. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
Computer Crime Investigation
FSCT 8512 | Digital Forensics 1 ​Students will learn how to identify, collect, and preserve digital evidence with an emphasis on evidence collected from the Windows operating system. Topics include fundamental computer forensics principles, information extraction, legal issues, and challenges posed by variations in both data sources and devices. Students will use specialized forensic software to collect and use evidence in a forensically sound manner, to support an investigation. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8520 | Social Media and Open-Source Investigative Techniques This course will provide you with the latest techniques used to effectively gather online information for investigative purposes relating to persons, companies, and other assets. You will be introduced to the methods of gathering online intelligence through social media platforms, search engines, and dark web searches. In addition, you will learn how to assess potential counter-intelligence concerns. Particular emphasis will be placed on heightened awareness and the “paper trail” investigators may leave behind when using internet investigation tools. Approaches to maintain privacy and security when carrying out online investigations will also be explored and a variety of online search methodologies introduced. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8540 | Network Security 1 This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of network administration, with particular emphasis on network security monitoring. Students will learn fundamental concept related to the design of secure networks, including the deployment of security devices and sensors. Students will get hands-on experience in network traffic analysis, using packet sniffers and other network monitoring tools. Intrusion detection, attacks and defenses will be introduced to prepare students for more advanced courses in network security administration. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 7511 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8560 | Network Security 2 This course covers advanced topics in network security and intrusion detection. In-depth coverage of perimeter protection and firewall designs. Advanced Intrusion Detection and IDS/IPS design and implementation. Students will be familiarized with network monitoring and security tools, and use them to perform traffic and IDS signature analysis, and network forensics. Also covered will be reverse engineering and machine code analysis techniques. These will be used to analyze malicious code and malware. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8540 course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8570 | Computer Forensics The focus of the course will be on crime scene investigations by first responders, examination of digital evidence, investigative uses of technology, investigating electronic technology crimes, and digital evidence retention and documentation, and courtroom presentation of digital evidence. Case studies of investigations performed on a real-world compromised system with lab-style, hands-on setting will be included in the course. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. (N.B. Students are advised to have a basic knowledge of the various operating systems). course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8580 | Encryption This course will focus on the concepts and applications of cryptography, covering topics on symmetric and asymmetric cryptography; secret key and key exchange; stream and block ciphers; message digests; public and private keys; digital signatures, digital certificates and Public Key Infrastructure (PKI); SSL, IPSec VPN's, S/MIME, PGP and WEP/WPA; cryptographic and non-cryptographic attacks; randomness and primality; cryptographic algorithms (DES, 3DES, AES, Blowfish, RSA, DSA, DH, El Gamal, ECC, MD5, SHA, RC4, etc.); and authentication, confidentiality, integrity and non-repudiation. Introduction to real-world use and applications will be included. Prerequisite(s): Admission to a Forensic credential program or permission of the Program Coordinator. course outline | 3.0
FSCT 8590 | Network Exploits and Vulnerabilities ​The course covers a wide range of topics from common vulnerabilities and tools that are used to exploit, to incident response and handling. Addresses theoretical and practical issues in malicious programs and scripts, ste​gano​graphy, worms and different types of network exploits and attacks. Prerequisite(s): 60% in FSCT 8540 course outline | 3.0
Complete 0.0 - 6.0 credits of electives from the following: Forensic Investigation (Forensic Science) - Electives Forensic Investigation (Crime and Intelligence Analysis) - Electives Please contact the program coordinator for further details.
Total Credits: | 24.0
Check current availability of courses for this program.
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
### Program length
Students work through their chosen curriculum at their own pace, therefore, the total length required to finish the program can vary. At six credits per term, the Advanced Certificate program can take five terms to complete.
### Grading
Depending on the course learning outcomes, students will be graded on a combination of the following:
- Participation in in-class exercises
- Participation in and completion of case studies
- Participation in discussion forums
- Submission of completed projects
- Submission of completed assignments
- Quizzes
- Mid-term and final examinations
The minimum passing grade for each course is 60%.
### Additional program options
- Crime and Intelligence Analysis
- Digital Forensics and Cybersecurity
- Forensic Science
- General Criminalistics
### Program location
Courses may be offered at the following locations:
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
Downtown Campus 555 Seymour Street Vancouver, BC
Distance and online learning
## Graduating & Jobs
### Apply for graduation
Upon successful completion of all program requirements, complete the Application for BCIT Credential . Please allow up to eight weeks for processing.
All financial obligations to the Institute must be met prior to issuance of any credential.
## Contact Us
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
