URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/mechanical-engineering-bachelor-of-engineering-full-time-8020beng/
Title: Mechanical Engineering
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Mechanical Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering Full-time School of Energy
## Overview
The Bachelor of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering is a four year degree program that prepares graduates for successful professional practice.
Note: The September 2026 intake is now closed for new applications. Applications for re-admission may still be submitted. Applications for the September 2027 intake will be accepted starting October 1, 2026.
Delivery: in person. See details .
### About the program
There are major changes happening all around us – climate change, aging populations, environmental degradation. As a Mechanical Engineer you would be well placed to help society meet the challenges that these changes bring. You could be designing new medical devices, creating new technologies for renewable and conventional energy, developing more efficient transportation systems or more efficient processes for industry. Mechanical Engineering is considered one of the broadest fields of engineering and there are opportunities in a variety of industrial sectors. As you progress in your career as a Mechanical Engineer you are likely to be called upon to lead organizations and inspire positive change.
Also, check out our two year Mechanical Engineering Technology programs that share a common first year with our Mechanical Engineering program. The Mechanical Engineering overview page shows how these programs link together.
### Who it’s for
The Mechanical Engineering program at BCIT is for those who are keen in gaining knowledge with both the theoretical and the hands-on practical skills to become a Mechanical Engineer. With emphasis on engineering fundamentals, and problem solving and life-long learning skills, the program provides an excellent environment for students to apply their knowledge in their capstone projects. The Mechanical Engineering program at BCIT gives you access to:
Great Faculty – Our faculty are dedicated to teaching. Many have extensive engineering, science, and industrial experience to share with students. Excellent Labs – Hands-on experience with up-to-date equipment and software helps you to understand the concepts that you learn in lectures and gives you job-ready, practical skills. Fantastic Career Choices – The training and education that you will receive prepares you for successful entry and advancing in your future careers, both in the related industries and graduate studies. As a graduate of this program, you can expect to obtain a position as an Engineer in Training (EIT) and you can expect to be well employed and respected in your career. See WorkBC’s Mechanical Engineering page on more information on careers and earnings.
## Entrance Requirements
### Find out more about getting started in the program!
If the Mechanical Bachelor of Engineering program interests you, review the entrance requirements. If you have questions regarding the entrance requirements and equivalents, please contact Program Advising .
If you qualify, you may want to attend an information session or spend-a-day exploring the program. You’ll meet students and instructors, and get a hands-on feel for what the program is about.
### Application processing
Applications are accepted October 1st* to March 15th.*
*or next business day
This program shares a common first year with the Mechanical Engineering Technology programs. All applicants must complete the first year of the program before continuing to either the Bachelor of Engineering degree program or to one of the technology diploma options. Entrance requirements for the first year are listed on the program entry page for each of the Mechanical Engineering Technology diploma options.
### Entrance requirements
To proceed from the diploma program into level 5 of the degree program, you must have a minimum Grade Point Average (GPA) of 70% and have completed the following to be considered:
- BCIT Diploma in Mechanical Engineering Technology (Mechanical Design Option)
- MATH 3499 – Ordinary Differential Equations and Linear Systems for Mechanical Engineers
- MATH 4499 – Applied Differential Equations and Vector Calculus
The number of positions in the degree is limited, so entry is competitive based on your GPA. Meeting the minimum entrance requirements does not guarantee acceptance into the program.
There are several pathways to qualify for the degree, and the application process differs for each. Please see the options below for instructions:
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program currently meets the PGWP eligibility requirements based on study program - graduates with a bachelor’s degree and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP. There are no field of study requirements (CIP) for graduates with a bachelor’s degree.
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
### Apply to program
If you are entering the Mechanical Engineering degree or diploma program for the first time, apply to Mechanical Engineering Technology, Diploma (Levels 1-4).
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through re-admission . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
### Re-admission
If you have previously completed part of this program at BCIT and wish to re-enter the program at an advanced level, you can apply for re-admission. Re-admission is available to levels 5 - 8 .
Submit the Technology/Degree Re-admission Form [PDF] with your application.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
Questions? Review the Admissions FAQ or contact Program Advising .
## Costs & Supplies
### Find out how much you will need to complete your Bachelor of Engineering Degree in Mechanical!
The information below will help you determine the cost of taking the program and assist you in developing a budget for your two years of study. If you have concerns about being able to afford the program, please visit Financial Aid to learn how you may benefit from financial assistance.
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
Level 1: $680, Level 2: $280, Level 3: $425, Level 4: $315 Level 5: $875, Level 6: $1,000, Level 7: $875, Level 8: $1,000
(general estimated cost as of 2020, subject to change)
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Mechanical Engineering term structure
Each year of the program is divided into two terms – the fall term runs from September to December (15 weeks) and the winter term runs from January to the end of May (20 weeks) with a one week spring break in the middle. In the 3rd year, the Winter term runs from January-April (15 weeks), leaving a 4 month break between terms for work experience (optional).
### Program matrix
Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHSC 1105 | Engineering Materials 1 This course provides a broad overview of the materials used in engineering, including metals, polymers and ceramics. Macroscopic properties, such as mechanical strength, elastic modulus and electrical conductivity, are dominated by structure and bonding. The microstructure of materials is examined and related to the macroscopic properties. The critical relationships between structure and properties will be studied for different classes of materials. Testing and measurement of mechanical properties will be performed in the laboratory sessions. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
COMM 1169 | Technical Communication 1 for Mechanical Engineering COMM 1169 teaches the basic skills for effective writing and speaking in the field of engineering. The course covers the layout, content and graphic techniques for technical writing and speaking. Assignments include summaries, instructions, process and/or mechanism descriptions, professional emails, a work plan, critical assessments of secondary sources, and a team-based oral presentation on sustainability, renewable energy, or clean technology. Critical reflection, feedback opportunities, and oral/aural activities are embedded throughout lectures and labs. Interpersonal and intercultural communication are applied and practiced as students are placed in randomly chosen, structured co-operative teams. Detailed, team-based journal entries are written at the end of most lab classes and evaluated by the instructor. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 1491 | Basic Technical Mathematics for Mechanical Introduces differential calculus of polynomial functions including appropriate support topics from algebra, analytical geometry, plane geometry, trigonometry and the theory of logarithms and exponential functions. There will be strong emphasis on illustrating the mathematics with applications from technology, engineering and the physical sciences. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
MECH 1001 | Introduction to Mechanical Engineering ​​This course provides a general overview of the mechanical engineering profession and the mechanical engineering programs at BCIT. Additional introductory lecture topics are presented in study techniques, documenting engineering problem solutions, teamwork, standards and codes, and engineering ethics. Lab sessions will provide individual and team assignments in support of these topics.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
MECH 1102 | Engineering Graphics 1 Introduces the techniques for interpreting and creating engineering drawings in accordance with Canadian Standards Association (CSA) drafting practices. Emphasis is on interpretation and the use of hand-sketching and basic drafting tools. The course also introduces the use of Computer Aided Design (CAD) application software for mechanical drawing using 3D solid modeling techniques. The course includes a project to sketch, model, and document a simple design. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
MECH 1141 | Statics This course introduces the basics for the design and analysis of many types of structures and mechanical devices encountered in engineering. Topics include trigonometry, vector analysis, forces, moments, free body diagrams (FBD) and equilibrium, applied to the analysis of frames, trusses, machines, cable-pulley systems and systems with friction. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MECH 1171 | Computer Applications and Programming This course introduces computer software that is integral to all engineering disciplines, including word processing, presentation, spreadsheet, and CAD software. Students will learn to communicate effectively using formatted documents and presentations. Spreadsheet built-in functions and custom-developed macros will be used to solve engineering problems and to analyze and chart data. Students will be introduced to computer programming including flowcharts, pseudocode, and structured programming in Visual Basic. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
Level 2 (20 weeks) | Credits
CHSC 2205 | Engineering Materials 2 This course continues from CHSC 1105 Engineering Materials 1. The engineering significance of interrelationships between processing methods, microstructure and properties is studied. The processing routes available for manufacturing stock and products from different materials are examined. Topics covered include: the metallurgy of steels and cast irons and the selection of alloy steels, cast-irons, non-ferrous alloys, polymers, composites, concrete and ceramics for practical applications. Common causes of service failures are discussed, including fatigue, embrittlement and corrosion. Laboratory sessions emphasize the use of mechanical testing, interpretation of microstructures and non-destructive testing, to facilitate understanding of the effects of processing on materials. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CHSC 1105 course outline | 5.5
MATH 2491 | Calculus for Mechanical A continuation of the differential calculus that was presented in MATH 1491and an introduction to integral calculus. Transcendental functions; related rates; maxima and minima; areas and volumes; centroids and moments of inertia; calculation of work and force due to fluid pressure; ordinary differential equations. Maple will be used for problem solving and function visualization. There will be a strong emphasis on illustrating the mathematics with applications from technology, engineering and physical sciences. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1491 course outline | 6.5
MECH 1210 | Manufacturing Processes Covers the basics of major manufacturing methods used today. Topics include metal cutting, welding, forming, casting, plastics processing, methods of numerical control and robotics programming as well as methods of measurement and inspection. The course addresses the principles upon which modern manufacturing processes are based. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.5
MECH 2202 | Engineering Graphics 2 Covers topics in engineering graphics and computer aided design, with emphasis on the creation and management of models and drawings in a team environment. Topics include advanced part modeling, parametric models, dimensioning standards, tolerance and fits, geometric dimensioning and tolerancing (GD&T), 2D CAD drawings, blocks and attributes, external references, piping and HVAC drawings, and working drawing set creation. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 1102 course outline | 6.5
MECH 2240 | Strength of Materials This course covers topics in strength of materials with emphasis on problem solving and with an introduction to design for safety of structural members, mechanical devices, and systems. Topics include stress, strain and deflection, tension, compression, shear, torsion, and buckling. Applications include beams, columns, shafts, thin, and thick-walled cylinders. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 1141 course outline | 5.5
MECH 2241 | Dynamics Following the study of bodies in static equilibrium, this course introduces another aspect of engineering mechanics, namely dynamics. Dynamics consists of kinematics; a study of the geometry of motion, as well as kinetics; a study of the geometry of motion and associated forces. Kinetic analysis includes methods based on Newton's second law of motion, conservation of energy and conservation of momentum. For mechanical applications, the forces associated with motion are critical to the design of many types of structures and mechanical devices. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 1141 course outline | 5.5
PHYS 2149 | Physics for Mechanical PHYS 2149 is an algebra-based physics course that addresses topics of special relevance to mechanical engineering. There are three major topic areas: Part 1 Electricity; Part 2 Magnetism; and Part 3 Waves and Light. The accompanying lab activities emphasize the proper techniques of measurement, experimentation, graphical data analysis, and error analysis. Practical applications of physics are discussed. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1013 or 50% in MATH 1491 An equivalent to MATH 1013 will be accepted. course outline | 5.5
Level 3 (15 weeks) | Credits
MATH 3499 | Ordinary Differential Equations and Linear Systems for Mechanical Engineers This course is a combination of vector and matrix algebra and an introduction to ordinary differential equations. It covers the basics of vectors - vector algebra, dot product, cross product – as well as solving systems of linear equations using methods such as Gaussian elimination and matrix inversion. Matrix algebra, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, similarity of matrices will all be covered. For differential equations, analytic solutions of first-order differential equations and higher-order differential equations with constant coefficients are discussed. Numerical solutions of initial value problems involving a single first-order differential equation and systems of first-order differential equations will be performed using appropriate computer tools such as Excel or Maple. For all course topics an emphasis will be placed on solving engineering problems. Prerequisite(s): Completion of Levels 1 and 2. course outline | 5.0
MECH 3325 | Fluid Mechanics This course introduces topics in fluid mechanics. Topics covered include: fluid properties; energy losses; Reynold's number; Moody diagram; simple pipe networks, pumps, lift and drag and fluid statics. Laboratory sessions reinforce lecture material. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 1141 and 50% in MATH 1491 course outline | 4.0
MECH 3330 | Mechatronics & Measurement Systems ​The course covers the fundamentals of the interdisciplinary fields of mechatronics and measurement systems. Topics include sensors, data acquisition systems, actuators, and controllers, with reference to their principles of operation and applications to industrial process control and motion control systems. The working principle of DC and stepper motors is covered. Commonly used industrial digital and analog controllers are introduced. Case studies are presented to demonstrate the applications of mechatronics and measurement systems.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in PHYS 2149 course outline | 4.0
MECH 3340 | Machine Design 1 Introduces machine design, with emphasis on elementary design and analytical procedures for machine components. The course covers theories of failure, combined stresses, stress concentration, fatigue phenomena, welded and threaded connections. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 2240 course outline | 4.0
MECH 3346 | Computer Aided Engineering The course introduces computer aided modelling, analysis, and simulation for mechanical components and assemblies. Engineering problems are solved by both manual calculations and computer modelling using commercial modelling and analysis software. Computer aided analysis and simulation include Finite Element Analysis (FEA), 3D frame analysis, part and assembly model analysis, and dynamic simulation. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 2491 and 50% in MECH 1102 and 50% in MECH 2240 course outline | 6.0
MECH 3356 | Fluid Power ​The course builds on the fundamentals of physics to provide students with a theoretical framework of hydraulic and pneumatic systems. Through practical labs, students gain familiarity with actual hydraulic and pneumatic components and circuits found in common industrial and mobile applications. Pumps, compressors, cylinders, motors and hydraulic accumulators are covered with reference to their principles of operation and performance characteristics. The operation of control elements such as pneumatic pressure regulators, directional control valves, needle valves, check valves and direct-, and pilot-operating relief valves are covered and used in circuits for directional, speed, pressure, and flow control. Complete fluid power systems are analysed to determine overall system performance. ​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 1141 or 50% in PHYS 2164 course outline | 4.0
MECH 3360 | Engineering Management This course introduces the common financial and managerial practices of business. Topics include: the economy, time value of money, economic decision analysis, labour relations, safety management and decision making. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1491 and 50% in MECH 1171 course outline | 4.0
Level 4 (20 weeks) | Credits
COMM 2269 | Technical Communication 2 for Mechanical Engineering COMM 2269 is integrated and taught concurrently with the fourth-term project course in either the mechanical manufacturing, mechanical design, or mechanical systems option. The course is delivered primarily in a workshop style which enables students to work independently and strengthen self-regulatory behaviour. In COMM 2269, students explore the interpersonal, intercultural, and technical communication skills introduced in COMM 1169 more deeply. The semester-long process of bringing a project to life requires students to demonstrate resilience to constraints, experience uncertainty, synthesize concepts, connect information, and achieve fresh insights. Students may create new knowledge or achieve innovation. COMM 2269 covers the following topics: research skills and documentation systems, formal reports, progress reports, meeting documentation, teamwork strategies, professional job package, techniques for effective visual design, and professional technical presentations. Students receive and have the opportunity to respond to verbal and written feedback on their project as the course progresses. Depending on the nature and scope of the final project, reports and oral presentations may be prepared and submitted in collaborative teams. Culminating outcomes for COMM 2269 are the final technical report, final technical presentation, final critical reflections, and participation in the Engineering Project Expo (all engineering project showcase). Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1169 MANU 4490‡ or MECH 4490‡ or MSYS 4490‡ (‡ Must be taken concurrently) course outline | 4.0
ELEX 2845 | Electrical Equipment* This course shall serve to introduce electrical equipment and systems found in the industrial and commercial environment to students who can expect to encounter such hardware in the course of their careers. The course will address those topics of key concern to non-electrical personnel in the mechanical and process industries. These will include: Electrical transmissions, energy rate structure and demand charges, line loss, power factor and power quality; abnormal circuit conditions and circuit protection devices; transformer operation and applications; three-phase power and its advantages; AC motors and drives; electrical controls: switches, relays and programmable logic controllers (PLCs). Prerequisite(s): 50% in PHYS 2149 course outline | 4.0
MATH 4499 | Applied Differential Equations and Vector Calculus Analytic solutions of first-order and linear second-order differential equations are covered. Eigenvalue methods are employed to solve systems of homogeneous differential equations and extended to the inhomogeneous case. Series solutions to higher-order differential equations with non-constant coefficients and Laplace transform methods for initial value problems are developed. Partial differential equations are introduced and solved using Fourier integral methods under a variety of boundary conditions. Vector functions and their associated operations are introduced, starting with differential operations (i.e. curl and divergence) and then integral operations (i.e. line integrals, surface integrals) including Stokes', Green's and Divergence theorems. The emphasis of the material is on its use in areas such as fluid flow and mechanics of solids. The laboratory component of the course emphasizes engineering applications in mechanical vibrations, control systems, robotics, fluid dynamics, material mechanics and system modelling. A computing tool such as Maple or MatLab is used throughout. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 3499 course outline | 6.5
MECH 0460 | Ethics for Technologists This course introduces the ASTTBC Code of Ethics & Practice Guidelines and will familiarize the student with the principles of professional conduct in the field of applied science technology. The course consists of mandatory seminars accompanied by on-line review and testing. This course is a requirement for graduation. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline
MECH 4422 | Thermal Engineering This course is concerned with the topics of energy, heat and work. A practical and rigorous presentation of the first and second laws of thermodynamics will be presented. The concept of a thermodynamic cycle will be introduced. Several working fluids, including steam will be studied. These concepts will be used to analyze various energy systems including power generation, internal combustion engines, and refrigeration cycles. Heat transfer analysis is presented; including heat conduction in solids and analysis of fins, forced convection heat transfer in and around circular pipes and the analysis of heat exchangers. The concepts of humidity and saturation will be introduced and used to analyze air conditioning systems. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1491 course outline | 5.5
MECH 4440 | Machine Design 2 Continues from MECH 3340. Covers couplings, brakes and clutches, anti-friction and journal bearings, helical, bevel and worm gearing, power screws, springs and machine assembly topics. Introduction to mechanical vibrations with emphasis on critical speeds of rotating bodies. Introduction to bulk materials handling systems. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 2241 and 50% in MECH 3340 course outline | 6.5
MECH 4452 | Automation and Robotics ​The course covers the fundamentals of automation systems and the role of automation in industry. Topics include industrial automation, digital twin, Proportional-integral-derivative (PID) control, actuator sizing, Programming Logic Controllers [PLCs], electro-hydraulic and electro-pneumatic control systems, and an introduction to robotics. It covers the basics of industrial robots and cobots as integrated in flexible manufacturing systems. Case studies are presented to demonstrate the applications of automation and robotic systems in industry.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 3330 and 50% in MECH 3356 course outline | 4.0
MECH 4490 | Engineering Design/Projects The typical engineering design process is covered, including the identification of customer needs, problem definition, development of product specifications, and conceptual design generation/selection techniques. Other topics include design project management, tolerance analysis, Design for Manufacturing and Assembly (DFMA), Design for Environment (DFE), Design for Safety (DFS), Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA), product design economics, prototyping, and patent/intellectual property. Students will concurrently apply the design process to a design project. A project proposal will be developed and presented. A technical report and where applicable, a prototype of the design will be created and presented. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 3340 and 50% in MECH 3346 COMM 2269 ‡ and ELEX 2845 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 6.5
*denotes a 15-week course
Level 5 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHEM 7105 | Chemistry for Mechanical Engineering This course provides an overview of the basic principles in general chemistry with practical applications. Topics covered include: atomic structure, theories of chemical bonding and molecular structure, stoichiometry, physical properties of molecules and materials, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, principles of chemical kinetics, and an introduction to organic chemistry. The material shows the relevance of chemistry in engineering emphasizing true problem solving over algebraic mastery. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
CHSC 7147 | Materials Engineering This course builds on the basics of heat treatment, failure analysis and materials properties learned in Engineering Materials 1 and 2. It provides a comparison of materials, as well as an overview of the latest advances in materials, emphasizing the relationship among material properties, microstructure and optimum material selection for design applications. Topics to be covered include: a review of key engineering properties and their measurement; design concepts, sources of material property data; the methodology of materials selection; assessment and optimization of performance; material processing and manufacturing issues, and the role of failure analysis in facilitating / improving design. Case studies in engineering material and process selection as well as failure analysis will also be examined. Builds on concepts learned in CHSC 2205. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ENGR 3800 | Introduction to Professional Engineering This course explores the practice of engineering and the role of engineers in society. Topics include professional associations, ethics, equity, design and development, standards, and intellectual property. Prerequisite(s): (50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in COMM 1243) or 50% in COMM 2269 or 50% in COMM 2451 course outline | 3.0
MATH 7195 | Probability and Statistics for Engineers Descriptive data analysis also including run charts, Pareto, and process capability. Calculus of relevant probability distribution models. Applications to reliability and operating characteristic (OC) curves. Large and small sample estimation and hypothesis testing. Linear regression and correlation. Introduction to acceptance sampling and statistical process control (SPC) applications. Goodness of fit tests and one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). A calculator and statistical software package will be utilized. This course provides a solid foundation in statistics and SPC for students challenging the American Society for Quality's Certified Quality Engineer Examination. Prerequisite(s): Entry in 3rd year of Mechanical Engineering B.Eng. course outline | 4.0
MECH 7120 | Thermodynamics Builds on Thermal Engineering. Topics covered include: differential thermodynamic property relation such as Maxwell relations; Joule-Thomson coefficient; properties of real gasses; gas power cycles; Chemical equilibrium and combustion. Builds on concepts learned in MECH 4422. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MECH 7142 | Mechanics and Mechanisms This course is a continuation from the fundamentals of static equilibrium, and kinematic and kinetic analysis introduced in Statics and Dynamics, with the inclusion of mechanism analysis. Differential calculus and vector notation are applied in the analysis of static equilibrium, and kinematics and kinetics of particles, rigid bodies, and multi-dimensional mechanisms, in common coordinate systems. Solutions in multi-dimensional mechanics are analytically derived from first principles. Builds on concepts learned in MECH 2241. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MECH 7171 | Engineering Programming In this course students will develop efficient, modular, well-documented programs with consistent style. Topics include logical algorithm development, code formatting and commenting, constants and variables, conditional logic, loops, arrays, structures, pointers, strings, file I/O, functions, and dynamic memory allocation. Students will develop programs that are typical in an engineering environment and develop debugging skills. Builds on concepts learned in MECH 1171 Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
Level 6 (15 weeks) | Credits
ELEX 7345 | Electronics and Microcontrollers ​This course develops the skills mechanical engineers need to interact with electronic systems, primarily in embedded applications. The bulk of the course deals with microcontrollers including: memory, assembly language, C programming, memory-mapped I/O, parallel and serial I/O, interrupts, and timers. ​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 7171 course outline | 5.0
ELEX 7350 | Control and Dynamic Systems This course builds on the control theory in previous courses and gives students the tools used in industry to analyse complex control problems. Starting with the modeling of mechanical, electrical and thermo-fluid dynamic systems using differential equations the course moves through the use of Laplace transforms to the analysis of control systems using root locus and frequency response methods. The design of compensation is introduced with applications in the laboratory. Common engineering software (Matlab and Simulink) are used throughout the course to model, design and evaluate control system performance. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.5
ENGR 7480 | Environment, Energy and Engineering ​The course deals with environmental problems, Green House Gas (GHG) emissions and effects, sustainable energy and their resources and effects, the scientific background needed to understand these issues, and the role of engineers in solving relevant challenges. Topics covered include the science of global warming, ecology, energy resources, energy production and consumption, clean energy technology and systems, hazardous wastes, and environmental effects of product life cycles. Students will use knowledge learned to complete projects aimed at sustainable design. The scientific relationships among environmental issues, the need for clean/renewable energy, and sustainable engineering practice and design will be established and explained. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CHEM 7105 or (50% in CHEM 3615 and 50% in MECH 4640) course outline | 4.0
LIBS 7001 | Critical Reading and Writing This is a course in advanced composition and rhetoric, in which students will develop skills in complex critical analysis and interpretation by analyzing and evaluating materials from a variety of discourses or genres, including visual, online, and print; developing and writing essays, including critiques and research papers; applying and discussing principles of rhetoric and critical theory; examining and using methods of interpretation and analysis from the humanities and social sciences; evaluating the credibility of primary and secondary sources, including as it applies to media literacy, and for the purposes of academic research; situating discourses within their historical context and relevant to rhetorical theories of different periods (for example, Aristotle in the ancient world and Bakhtin in the twentieth century). The course format will include lecture, discussion, and both individual and group activities. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177 or equivalent, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 7295 | Numerical Methods The course extends the introduction of numerical methods in MATH 3499 to more advanced algorithms and an analysis of error, convergence and stability. Topics covered include the numerical solution of initial- and boundary-value problems involving ordinary differential equations; an introduction to partial derivatives; the numerical solution of partial differential equations of engineering interest; matrix decomposition methods and numerical methods for linear algebra. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 7171 course outline | 3.0
MECH 7225 | Fluid Mechanics 2 This course covers select topics in fluid mechanics. Topics include control-volume analysis, governing equations in differential form (Navier-Stokes equations), stream function, vorticity, and velocity potential, flow past immersed bodies, boundary layer theory and compressible flow. Builds on concepts learned in MECH 3325. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 7171 course outline | 4.0
Practicum (optional) | Credits
Students have the option to complete the Mechanical Engineering Practicum over the summer.
MECH 6090 | Mechanical Engineering Practicum ​​This course enhances the educational experience by integrating academic studies with relevant work experience. Work terms are paid, temporary, full-time jobs where students complete productive work that relates directly to the core competencies of the Mechanical Engineering program. Job placements are approved by the Program Head. Prerequisite(s): Enrolled in year 3 of Mechanical Engineering course outline | 3.0
Level 7 (15 weeks) | Credits
MECH 7240 | Mechanics of Solids Represents a second course in strength of materials and introduces calculus in the conceptual representation of stress, strain and deflection, tension, compression, shear, torsion, deflection and buckling of material under load. Additional topics included are: stress/strain transformations; analysis of stress-strain relations, exact and approximate solutions bending of beams; bending of curved beams; torsion of prismatic bars, axisymetrically loaded members; energy methods; elastic stability, and plastic behaviour of materials. Buckling and stability of structures is also introduced and experimental strain measurement is covered by lectures and laboratory sessions. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MECH 8120 | Heat Transfer This course extends the heat transfer analysis introduced in Thermodynamics and Fluid Mechanics. Topics covered include: Derivation of the general conduction equation, Multi-dimensional steady-state conduction; Transient conduction; External forced convection; Internal forced convection; Free convection; Heat transfer by radiation. The course also covers finite difference methods for steady state and transient heat transfer analysis. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 7120 and 50% in MECH 7225 course outline | 4.0
MECH 8135 | Mechanical Engineering Laboratory This course allows students to perform experiments in Mechanical Engineering. Students will be expected to apply their knowledge of Instrumentation, Measurement and Electronics to the measurement of forces, strain, pressure, temperature, flow, and other process parameters to draw conclusions based on their knowledge of heat transfer, thermodynamics, strength of materials, vibrations and fluid mechanics obtained in their other courses. The lecture portion of this course reviews and synthesizes students' knowledge of measurements and shows how these concepts apply to mechanical engineering. These concepts are directly applied in the laboratory component of the course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 7345 and 50% in MATH 7295 course outline | 5.0
MECH 8145 | Mechanical Vibrations This course aims to develop students' fundamental knowledge and understanding of free and forced vibration of mechanical systems with and without damping, including steady state and transient vibrations; vibration of multi-degree of freedom systems; vibration isolation and modal analysis, vibration of continuous systems and beam vibrations. Introduction of Lagrange's equation for mechanical systems is also discussed. Common engineering software packages are used throughout the course to model, design and evaluate system performance. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 7142 course outline | 4.0
MECH 8190 | Capstone Project 1 This course covers project management for the engineering profession with reference to the project life cycle; project stakeholders; organizational influences; key general management skills; social-economic-environmental influences. A detailed elaboration is presented of the management processes associated with the initiating, planning, controlling executing and closing phases of a project. Students will be expected to apply the principles covered in this course to their Capstone Project. Prerequisite(s): Substantial completion of Level 5 and 6. course outline | 5.0
and
Select either LIBS 7005 or LIBS 7007 to meet the impact of technology on society breadth requirement or obtain transfer credit by providing evidence of this requirement being met through courses taken elsewhere.
LIBS 7005 | Technology, Invention and Power From ancient Greek myth to modern science fiction, Western culture's depictions of the power of technology have shaped our contemporary views. By analysing selected works of literature, film, TV and Internet sites from different historical periods, students will explore continuities and changes in depictions of technology and its transformative powers. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
or
LIBS 7007 | Technology and Society This course will explore the interrelationship between technology and society. The course will focus on how societal forces shape and are shaped by the meanings, development, spread, and uses of technology. Concepts, perspectives, and arguments from the social sciences and humanities will be studied and applied to analyze connections between society and technology. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
Level 8 (20 weeks) | Credits
BUSA 7250 | Management Skills and Applications The course provides an overview of the basic skills of a manager and applies these skills through a series of projects and case studies. It examines the evolution of management and the organizational culture and environment. It also teaches the decision-making skills and the skills involved in planning, organizing, leading and controlling, including planning and facilitating change, teamwork, applying motivational techniques and effective communication. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ENGR 7880 | Engineering Law Ethics and Professionalism This course addresses key issues in engineering law, ethics and professionalism. The course content promotes critical thinking about legal, moral, and ethical issues that electrical engineers face. Topics covered include contracts, torts, partnerships, liens, engineering liability, patents, copyrights, trademarks, hazards, standards, safety and legal and ethical concerns related to use of computer hardware and software. It also includes ethical principles in professional employment, engineering management, private practice, and consulting. It addresses the roles and responsibilities of the electrical engineer related to environmental stewardship, and the impact of electrical engineering practice on the environment. Finally, it covers the roles and responsibilities of professional engineering organizations, and the ritual of the calling of the Engineer. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ENGR 3800 course outline | 3.0
MECH 8230 | System Design This course covers the modeling, analysis, and design of real-world dynamic systems composed of mechanical, electrical, and thermal-fluid elements. Emphasis is placed on the of exchange of energy and power between the different system elements. Power flow diagrams known as bond graphs are developed and used to generate a set of state-based equations, which are solved using Matlab. Students learn to develop, verify, analyze, and design multi-component models of electro-mechanical systems, culminating in a group design project. Prerequisite(s): 50% in ELEX 7350 and 50% in MATH 7295 course outline | 4.0
MECH 8290 | Capstone Project 2 Provides the student with an opportunity to integrate and synthesize knowledge gained throughout their program to satisfy specific objectives and requirements. This two term course may take one of the following forms: 1) Group or individual design project: where groups contribute to the solution of a design project, and individuals specialize in various aspects of the design.2) Individual research project: original research or experimentation. Group or Individual project: involving design and analysis of an engineering system, typically posed by a company or organization. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 8190 course outline | 5.5
and
Select one of two courses:
MECH 8242 | Concurrent and Reliability Engineering Introduces concurrent and reliability engineering and examines their application through study of the product and production process development models. Practical aspects of design for reliability are covered utilizing statistical modeling and prediction, data analysis, and testing. Design for manufacture and assembly, product life-cycle analysis and associated environmental concerns, are covered as integral components of concurrent and reliability engineering. Students will complete a design project. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 7195 course outline | 4.0
or
MECH 8250 | Building Systems This course covers the integrated mechanical systems for buildings including HVAC, plumbing and fire protection systems. It includes the applications of heat and mass transfer for the design of building HVAC systems, an overview of the multi-discipline engineering building design process and an overview of building plumbing and fire protection systems engineering. Students will complete a design project. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MECH 8120 course outline | 4.0
and Liberal Studies Elective (3.0 credits) All students will be required to achieve these credits in accordance with the BCIT policy on BCIT policy on Liberal Studies course requirements . and Natural Science Elective (3.0 credits)
Total Credits: | 235.0
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
The program information below provides a synopsis of the Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering program and how graduates can attain the designation Professional Engineer.
### What will I learn?
Your successful engineering career will be based upon a mechanical engineering program that will allow you to develop the skills you require to:
- Model – develop and construct mathematical, physical and conceptual models for the purposes of analysis and design
- Design and develop – employ technical knowledge, design methodology, and apply appropriate tools and resources to design, simulate, visualize and develop components, systems and processes to meet specified performance criteria
- Select materials – select appropriate engineering materials based on their properties
- Investigate experimentally – design and conduct experiments, devise appropriate measurements, analyze and interpret data and form reliable conclusions
- Build and test – demonstrate proficiency in a substantial range of workshop and laboratory procedures with a strong grasp of engineering principles and workshop safety
- Pursue sustainability – ensure that the design, development and specification of materials and components are in balance with the needs of the environment
- Manage projects – apply project management techniques
- Forecast and manage budgets – incorporate cost considerations throughout the planning and execution of projects
### A typical week
For the first two years you will spend approximately 30 hours in lectures, tutorials and labs each week. An additional 25-30 hours each week will likely be spent preparing, completing assignments and studying. During the final two years of the program the in-class hours are reduced to approximately 25 hours per week, and a corresponding increase in your own study time is expected.
### Program length
Four years full-time beginning in September each year.
### Grading
The passing grade for each course is 50%. For more details, see the course outlines on the Courses page
### Safety requirements
### Accreditation
The Mechanical Engineering program at BCIT leads to two credentials: a diploma in Mechanical Engineering Technology after year two, and a Bachelor of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering after year four.
The Mechanical Engineering program is nationally accredited by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB).
Completion of a Mechanical Engineering degree and enrolling as an Engineer-in-Training (EIT) with a provincial engineering licensing body are the first steps to achieve licensure as a Professional Engineer (P.Eng.).
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
### Continue your education
Advanced Training
Degree graduates are qualified to continue with graduate studies, nationally or internationally. Other educational institutions may have additional entrance requirements.
## Graduating & Jobs
### What’s in it for me?
### A rewarding career as a Professional Engineer
Professional Engineers are well paid, in demand, and well respected, both in industry and in society. The BCIT B.Eng. (Mechanical) opens the door for your career as a Professional Engineer.
### A broad range of employment possibilities
Mechanical Engineering is one of the most diverse engineering disciplines. Employment opportunities for Mechanical Engineers can be found in all aspects of industry. For example, industries related to energy, design, manufacturing, automation, modeling and simulation, space exploration, research and development.
### A stepping stone to graduate studies in Engineering
With a B.Eng degree in Mechanical Engineering from BCIT, graduates interested to further their education in engineering can pursue a Masters degree followed by a Ph.D. There are several reasons for doing this:
- To specialize in a particular area in which you’re interested in working
- To prepare for advanced engineering jobs
- To prepare for careers in research and development
- To prepare for a university career
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Mechanical Engineering
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
### You have a great team of committed faculty, staff and industry advisors supporting your learning!
BCIT instructor passion for teaching helps enable students to succeed in their mechanical engineering studies.
Our instructors are highly qualified mechanical engineers and applied scientists who have many years of teaching experience. Many of them are Professional Engineers, have worked for years in industry and continue to maintain close ties with industry. Our instructors’ backgrounds include:
- Heating, ventilation and air-conditioning system design
- Mechanical component design
- Research and development in advanced technology, such as aerospace and hybrid vehicles
- Mechatronic system development
- Control systems development
- Computer-aided design and manufacturing
- Energy systems, thermo-fluids, and renewable energy efficiency
### Faculty
Martin Strange, BEng, P.Eng. Program Head, BEng, Mechanical Engineering Tel: 604-432-8332 Email: mstrange@bcit.ca
Mohammad Alemi, PhD, P.Eng. Program Head, Mechanical Manufacturing Tel: 604-456-8044 Email: malemi3@bcit.ca
Vahid Askari, PhD, P.Eng. Faculty Tel: 604-431-4906 Email: vaskari@bcit.ca
Tayfun Aydin, PhD, P.Eng. Program Head, Mechanical Design Tel: 604-432-8926 Email: Tayfun_Aydin@bcit.ca
Henry Chang, PhD, P.L.Eng Faculty Tel: 604-432-8923 Email: Henry_Chang@bcit.ca
Olivian Ciobanu, PhD, P.Eng. Faculty Tel: 604-451-6831 Email: ociobanu@bcit.ca
Skai Edwards, MSc, P.Eng. Program Head, Mechanical Systems Tel: 604-432-8541 Email: skai_edwards@bcit.ca
Shervin Jannesar, PhD, P.Eng. Program Head, First Year Mechanical Engineering Tel: 604-456-1252 Email: sjannesar@bcit.ca
Jalal Kahnamouei, PhD, P.Eng. Faculty Tel: 604-456-1248 Email: jalal_kahnamouei@bcit.ca
Lee McClelland, BASc Faculty Tel: 604-456-8032 Email: lee_mcclelland@bcit.ca
Cyrus Raoufi, PhD, P.Eng. Faculty Tel: 604-432-8331 Email: Cyrus_Raoufi@bcit.ca
Alex Riley, PhD, P.Eng. Faculty Tel: 604-453-4014 Email: Alex_Riley@bcit.ca
Mehrzad Tabatabaian, PhD, P.Eng. Faculty Tel: 604-456-1104 Email: Mehrzad_Tabatabaian@bcit.ca
Rageey Youssef, PhD, P.Eng. Faculty Tel: 604-432-8638 Email: Rageey_Youssef@bcit.ca
### Assistant instructors
Brian Ennis, BTech, MEd Assistant Instructor Tel: 604-451-6830 Email: Brian_Ennis@bcit.ca
Paul Lee, BEng Assistant Instructor Tel: 604-432-8755 Email: paul_lee@bcit.ca
Ali Mohammad-Vali, BEng, P.Eng. Assistant Instructor Tel: 604-432-8971 Email: ali_mohammad_vali@bcit.ca
Maejor Sidhu, MEng, P.Eng. Assistant Instructor Tel: 604-451-6708 Email: maejor_sidhu@bcit.ca
### Technical staff
Christopher Townsend, DipIT Technician Tel: 604-451-6724 Email: ctownsend@bcit.ca
### Staff
Jeanie Chan , P.Eng, MASc, BEMP Associate Dean Tel: 604-432-8280 Email: Jeanie_Chan@bcit.ca
Courtney Neish Administrative Assistant Tel: 604-432-8274 Email: Courtney_Neish@bcit.ca
Melissa Hart Program Assistant Tel: 604-451-6868 Email: Melissa_Hart@bcit.ca
### Advisory committee
An advisory board of experts in this field, from some of B.C.’s top companies, helps us keep our program and courses up to date with the latest research and industry trends.
Erwin Bartz Murray Latta Progressive Machine Inc.
Ken Jensen Wexxar Packaging Inc.
Todd Macey Kadant Carmanah Inc.
Don Marcellus Janox Fluid Power Ltd.
Steve Pratt TBA
## Testimonial
### Mehran Zargham, Project Manager- Fleet PMO, BC Ferry Services
Mehran Zargham entered BCIT’s Mechanical Engineering program in 2011 and right away was motivated to become a dedicated and involved student. During his first and second year, he joined BCIT’s Engineers Without Borders (EWB), helping it grow from being merely a campus club to becoming an initiative recognized by EWB’s National Office in Toronto.
In his second and third year of studies, Mehran was the president of the Mechanical Engineering Student Society (MESS) and team member of the SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) Baja project. The objective of Baja is to design, test, and build a recreational off-road vehicle (yes, from scratch!) and compete with it in an annual competition alongside other universities from across North America. Mehran was part of the first team that put BCIT’s Baja team on the map.
During his third year, he spent four months in an international Internship in Shanghai China with Lloyds Register, a London engineering firm, and applied his skills in machine design and strength of materials to conduct shaft alignment, fatigue, and torsional vibrational analysis for designing ships.
After graduating from the degree program in 2015 Mehran worked as a project engineer for a Meridian Marine Inc., a shipbuilding company, where he delivered one of BC’s innovative renewable energy projects–Water Wall Turbine–which, with the help of tidal energy, delivered electricity to Dent Island. Around that time, Mehran applied to UBC’s Masters of Engineering (MEng) program, Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering. Working part-time to complete the project for Meridian Marine Inc., Mehran was able to finish his master’s degree. Before graduating he received a job offer from Lloyd Register to work around the world as a surveyor.
Mehran spent the next year and half working in Toronto, London, Southampton, Venice, and many other cities, where he gained valuable experience. He came back to Vancouver after getting hired as a project manager for BC Ferries, where he is currently working. Mehran is responsible for managing multiple ship refits in planning, executing, and closing stages, and he works closely with his project team to develop preliminary and detailed business cases and deliver projects on time.
Mehran stated, “BCIT, with its practical approach to learning and the caring professors, helped me gain the necessary knowledge and skills to land on my dream career path.”
## Contact Us
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
