URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/medical-laboratory-science-diploma-full-time-6615dipma/
Title: Medical Laboratory Science
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Medical Laboratory Science
Diploma Full-time School of Health Sciences
## Overview
Medical laboratory technologists (MLTs) perform over 1.2 million lab tests every day in Canada. Doctors use these tests to make diagnoses that impact patient health. Our grads play a critical role in ensuring patients get the right treatment and health care they need.
Note: The September 2026 intake is now closed for new applications. Applications for re-admission may still be submitted. Applications for the September 2027 intake will be accepted starting October 1, 2026.
Delivery: in person. See details .
### About the program
With one of the highest pass rates in the country, BCIT’s Medical Laboratory Science program is known for producing high-quality and well-prepared graduates who are ready to start working from day one.
- Two-and-a-half year, full-time, Diploma program
- On-campus lectures and clinical labs deliver a solid theoretical and practical foundation
- A 35-week clinical placement provides direct learning in a workplace lab setting
Students are ready to write the national entry-to-practice exam upon graduation. See Program Details to learn more about BCIT’s Medical Laboratory Science program.
### Who it’s for
This program is for individuals who:
- Have a high school diploma or higher level of education with science and math courses
- Have an aptitude for mathematics and scientific work
- Have strong critical thinking and organizational skills
- Are interested in detailed, precise, analytical work
- Have the emotional stability to effectively manage the needs of patients, and to cope in stressful situations
- Are able to work day, night, and weekend shifts in a physically demanding, fast-paced environment
- Are willing to work shifts with varying schedules
Find out if this program is right for you. See Entrance Requirements for more information on requirements and applying.
### What grads can do
Our grads get hired, with many being offered employment before completing the program. Visit Graduating and Jobs to learn more about a future in medical lab science.
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
Applications are accepted from October 1st* to May 15th.*
You must submit a complete application, including all supporting documents, by the deadline date to be considered.
*or next business day
- Self-identify as an Indigenous person of Canada on the admission application.
- Have successfully completed the program’s entrance requirements.
### Entrance requirements
Competitive Entry: Three-step process
This program is competitive and only applicants who have met the academic entrance requirements will be considered.
Preference for shortlisting will be given to applicants with:
- Post-secondary education in a Canadian medical laboratory-related program (e.g., UBC Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Science)
- Strong GPAs
Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements
- English language proficiency: Category 1 – English Studies 12 (73%) or equivalent
- Math: one of the following (or equivalent): Pre-Calculus 12 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or MATH 0001 – Technical Mathematics (73%) or MATH 0120 – Math 12 Competency Test (73%)* or 3.0 credits of post-secondary math (linear algebra, pre-calculus, or calculus) at 
100 level or higher (73%) from a recognized institution
- Biology: one of the following (or equivalent ): Anatomy and Physiology 12 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or BHSC 0110 – Foundational Human Anatomy and Physiology (73%) or BHSC 0100 – Human Biology (73%) or BHSC 0012 – Biology 12 Challenge Exam (73%)* or 3.0 credits of post-secondary human biology (73%) 
from a recognized institution with course content covering cytology and the structure and function of the digestive, cardiovascular, respiratory, nervous, renal/urinary, and reproductive systems.
- Chemistry: one of the following (or equivalent): Chemistry 12 (73%) or CHEM 0120 – Chemistry 12 Challenge Exam (73%)* or 3.0 credits of post-secondary chemistry (73%) from a recognized institution
- Physics: one of the following (or equivalent): Physics 11 (67%) or PHYS 0309 – Pre-Entry Physics 1 (67%) or PHYS 0110 – Physics 11 Challenge Exam (67%)* or 3.0 credits of post-secondary physics at 100 level or higher (67%) from a recognized institution
- Complete the following form for submission with your online application: Program Requirement Form [PDF] : To acknowledge the nature of this training and the physically demanding nature of this work.
*Students can only write the challenge exams once . A student who registers and writes these exams a second time will be given the mark from their first attempt.
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
Step 2: Requirements for selected applicants
All applications will be reviewed by the program area. Only complete applications received by the application deadline date will be considered.
- Shortlisted applicants will be required to complete multiple online assessments based on comprehension, critical thinking, and audio/visual acuity.
- The assessment process has been designed to assess suitability for the healthcare profession.
- Conditional acceptance into the program is based on the assessments.
- The assessment process is conducted in the first two weeks of June.
Step 3: Conditionally selected applicants
If you have been conditionally accepted to BCIT, you will be notified and the following mandatory information will be required in order to be fully accepted into the 
program:
- Criminal Record Check [PDF]
- Immunization Review [PDF] : Submit to Student Health Services . Immunization is a mandatory requirement for this program. For instructions and more information, visit Student Health Services’ Health Science Student Information .
Once these and any other outstanding conditions have been met, you will receive notification of your full acceptance.
### Clinical requirements
Note: Effective immediately, all health care workers who come into contact with patients at publicly funded health care facilities or in the community, including at long-term care facilities, will have to get the influenza vaccine or wear a mask during flu season. This policy affects all students who will be entering a clinical setting. As such, you will be required to provide proof of your immunization or agree to wear a mask at all times through the flu season prior to being placed in your clinical studies.
Face Respirator Fit Testing
Respirator fit testing with a N95 respirator (1860, 1860s, or 1870) is required and must be performed in accordance with CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-02. Fit testing must also include inspection, cleaning, maintenance, and storage of protective equipment. Students will be given specific instructions on how to access fit testing by the program prior to the first clinical. Students are responsible for paying for the annual fit test while in the program and carrying their certificate with them at all times during their practicum.
### Recommended for success
If it has been more than five years since you completed math, biology, or chemistry and you are not currently working in a science-related field, upgrading is recommended to help you prepare for the academic demands of the program. There are no recency expectations for English and Physics requirements.
Since the work is highly technical and exacting, you must feel comfortable with complex instruments, possess considerable manual dexterity, and have meticulous work habits. You must also have a strong sense of responsibility and a desire to work as a health-care team worker with the ability to work quickly and accurately under pressure. Excellent communication, interpersonal, organizational, and critical thinking skills are required.
### International applicants
This program is not available to international students. View available programs .
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### Prior Learning Assessment & Recognition (PLAR)
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through re-admission . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
- Approved success plan : acceptance will, in part, be dependent upon the successful implementation of a plan resolving previous academic difficulties.
### Re-admission
If you have previously completed part of this program at BCIT and wish to re-enter the program at an advanced level, you may be eligible to apply for re-admission. Please review the letter you received from Student Records to determine whether or not you are eligible.
View the Re-admission Guidelines and Process
- The Medical Laboratory Science program reserves the right to deny any applicant re-admission to the program after a single clinical failure due to: Violation of BCIT guiding principles and standards or conduct (policies 5101 , 5102 , and 5104 ) Violation of the Canadian Society for Medical Laboratory Science (CSMLS) Code of Professional Conduct
- If you have withdrawn from or failed any Medical Laboratory Science course that is a prerequisite for a course in the next level of the program, you are deemed to have failed out of the program. You must apply for re-admission when ready to return to the program.
- If you have any combination of two instances of withdrawal or failure in a Medical Laboratory Science course, or have failed two or more courses in a single term, you may be re-admitted to the program only “with written permission from the Associate Dean, who will detail any special considerations in a written contract” (BCIT Policy 5103 ).
- The length of time out of the clinical environment will influence which level of the program to which you may be re-admitted. If you have been out of the program for two sequential terms you may be required to repeat a previous clinical course for which you have credit.
- You may be required to audit or retake courses already successfully completed. You may not take any courses in the next level until you have successfully completed all courses in your current level.
- If you have failed any level 4 courses, you must re-apply for the failed courses(s) and must audit the remaining level 4 course(s), including meeting attendance and participation requirements. This is to ensure that you are prepared to successfully and safely enter level 5 clinical.
Submit the September 2022 Matrix Medical Laboratory Science Re-Admit form [PDF] with your application.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
## Costs & Supplies
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition fees, visit Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees .
### Books & supplies
Supplies, in addition to regular school supplies, include appropriate footwear, uniforms, and CAMLPR exam fees*.
Level 1: $1,550 Level 2: $380 Level 3: $570 Level 4: $100 Level 5: $100
(general estimated cost, subject to change)
Face respirator fit testing: approx. $30 per year annual re-fitting required.
*Please refer to the CAMLPR website for current certification examination fee schedule.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Program matrix
Level 1 (September to December) | Credits
BHSC 1139 | Applied Immunology Study the theoretical foundations for understanding the immune response and immune disorders, as well as the use of immune products as both therapies and laboratory reagents. The innate immune response and both humoral and cellular adaptive responses will be examined, including discussion of the impact of cytokine signaling and inflammation in the immune response. The use of immune products will be investigated as both reagents and analytes in a range of laboratory analyses, and students will apply this knowledge to the analysis of clinical and immunological data. The underlying basis and clinical manifestations of immunological disorders such as immunodeficiency, hypersensitivity and autoimmune diseases will also be examined. Learning is assessed through a range of written assignments and exams. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.5
BHSC 1310 | Anatomy and Physiology for Medical Laboratory Sciences 1 ​Utilize a systems approach to study the relationship between structure and function in the human body. Begin with a discussion of cells and tissues as basic structural/functional units followed by histology, integumentary, musculoskeletal, hematological, vascular and lymphatic systems. Applying homeostasis as a theme to regulation and integration of body systems with emphasis placed on the anatomy, physiology and systems relevant to Medical Laboratory Sciences. In the seminars, case studies and other active learning techniques are used to integrate knowledge across body systems and to develop critical thinking skills essential to clinical practice. Evaluation of learning is conducted through weekly seminar quizzes, exams, as well as in-class practice and participation. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
COMM 1370 | Communications for Medical Laboratory Science 1 Develop effective listening, writing, and speaking skills required for the Medical Laboratory Technology field. Learn practical considerations for effective planning, organizing, and presenting of information, both orally and in writing. Begin to anticipate communication challenges in the workplace and develop analytical skills and strategies for problem solving and handling interpersonal challenges commonly met with in the professional field. Exercises and activities to develop the learner's abilities to work effectively as a team member or team leader also integrated into seminars and assignments. Evaluation of learning is conducted through a range exams, written projects, and oral presentations. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MLSC 1218 | Integrative Medical Laboratory Studies 1 Learn a variety of methods, approaches and foundational concepts that are applied across clinical laboratory areas and activities. Identify many of the analytical and operational connections between the different disciplines of the medical laboratory: Clinical Chemistry, Hematology, Anatomical Pathology, Transfusion Medicine, Molecular Diagnostics and Clinical Microbiology. Integrate, and hone through practice, the over-arching concepts of safety, basic laboratory practice, specimen handling, methodology and analysis, quality assurance, and critical thinking required as a Medical Laboratory Technologist. Evaluation of learning is conducted through a range of theory based assessments, and practical laboratory and skills demonstrations. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 7.5
MLSC 1309 | Clinical Microbiology 1 ​Learners will explore human relationships with microorganisms, prokaryotic (bacterial) cell structure, metabolism and growth, and the principles of antimicrobial action and resistance. In laboratory and seminar, learners will study techniques employed in the clinical microbiology laboratory to identify bacterial isolates and correlate culture growth. Evaluation includes assessment of theoretical knowledge and demonstration of practical skills.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.5
MLSC 1314 | Molecular and Cell Biology ​This course introduces principles of eukaryotic/prokaryotic molecular and cell biology to provide foundational knowledge & support future program courses. Topics include cell and genome organization, DNA structure and replication, NAT pre-analytical considerations​, and genotype-phenotype correlation. Lecture theory is supported by learning activities. Assessment is based on assignments, quizzes and exam. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.0
Level 2 (January to May) | Credits
BHSC 1300 | Self and Others: Foundations ​Develop core skills for professional practice as a Medical Laboratory Technologist, including recognizing signs of individual stress and burnout, conflict and group stress in the workplace. Recognize signs of patient stress and distress, and learn to support special patient cases, such as phobic and anxious patients, and reducing pain perception. Develop skills in coping with stress and de-escalating distress in self and others, conflict resolution, as well as managing the impact of shiftwork. Exercises and activities include discussions, role-play, and a self-reflective approach to examine how one's own interpersonal style influences others. Learning is assessed through a mix of theoretical exams, skills demonstrations and reflections. Prerequisite(s): All Level 1 MLS courses course outline | 1.5
BHSC 1320 | Anatomy and Physiology for Medical Laboratory Sciences 2 This course further examines the human body: cardiac, respiratory, digestive, renal, neurological (incl special senses), endocrine, and reproductive systems. Fluid and pH homeostasis are studied to exemplify regulation and integration of body systems. In the seminars, case studies and other active learning techniques are used to integrate knowledge across body systems and to develop critical thinking skills essential to clinical practice. Evaluation of learning is conducted through weekly seminar quizzes, exams, as well as in-class practice and participation. Prerequisite(s): BSHC 1310 AND All Term 1 courses course outline | 3.0
MLSC 1304 | Specimen Procurement 1 Accurate biological specimen procurement and handling, with particular focus on blood specimens is foundational to the work of medical laboratory technologists. Learn to verify relevant data and procure appropriate specimens according to established protocols. Under supervision, practice simulated venous collection techniques. Through laboratory exercises, develop effective client/patient communication strategies and demonstrate professional, ethical behaviour expected in clinical settings. Evaluation of learning is conducted through a range theory based written assessments, and practical laboratory and skills demonstrations. Prerequisite(s): All Term 1 courses course outline | 1.0
MLSC 1320 | Transfusion Science 1 ​​​​​​​Introduces the basic concepts of transfusion science. Utilizes terminology needed to understand and communicate about transfusion practice. Illustrates and provides opportunity to practice the basic techniques used in the transfusion service. Learning is assessed through a combination of exams, quizzes, assignments, and laboratory work. Prerequisite(s): All Level 1 courses. course outline | 2.5
MLSC 2300 | Hematology 1 Learn to identify and evaluate normal and non-malignant blood cells through the preparation, examination, and reporting of peripheral blood films and correlating these findings with patient history and Complete Blood Count (CBC) results. The concepts associated with hematopoiesis and erythrocyte, leukocyte, and thrombocyte metabolism form the basis for this practice. Routine manual hematology techniques and automated CBC analyzers will be explored in both theory and practice including: test principles, methods, and limitations associated with each test. Quality control practices will be emphasized to ensure that reliable test results are obtained and reporting criteria are followed. Familiarization with interfering substances and corrective actions necessary to limit the effects of these on patient samples will also be explored. Test results will be assessed according to established reference ranges and critical alert values. Procedures required for follow-up when abnormal and/or implausible test results are obtained will also be introduced. Prerequisite(s): All Term 1 Courses course outline | 5.0
MLSC 2309 | Clinical Microbiology 2 Continued study of major groups of bacteria based on epidemiology, pathogenesis/disease spectrum, laboratory diagnosis and therapy/prevention. Apply laboratory protocols in the identification of selected bacteria studied in Level 1 and Level 2. Interpret test results to report identifications at an introductory level. Study instrumentation/automation (including MALDI) at an introductory level. Describe concepts of safe practice in theory for RL3 organisms. Apply safe practices in laboratory for RL1 and RL2 organisms. Refine critical thinking, problem solving, and team-based interpersonal skills through collaborative laboratory workshops and assignments that integrate theory and practice. Learning will be assessed with theory examinations, online learning activities and practical labs. Prerequisite(s): All Level 1 courses and MLSC 1309 course outline | 4.5
MLSC 2314 | Molecular Diagnostics 1 MLSC 2314 builds on nucleic acid testing (NAT) fundamentals from MLSC 1314 and applies them to clinical molecular work. This course introduces principles, instrumentation, and quality assurance/quality control practices for nucleic acid testing (NAT) in the clinical laboratory. NAT technologies discussed in detail include singleplex and multiplex amplification by end-point PCR. Lab sessions emphasize development of proper NAT technique through manual preparation of genomic DNA samples, testing for clinically relevant DNA sequences by end-point amplification, and interpreting/reporting PCR results. Assessment is based on assignments/ lab reports, and quizzes /exams.​ ​ Prerequisite(s): All Level 1 courses and MSLC1314 course outline | 2.5
MLSC 2315 | Clinical Chemistry 1 Become familiar with the clinical significance and analytical methods involved in several different biochemical constituents including the use of manual and automated techniques for qualitative and quantitative analysis of blood, urine, and stool specimens. Utilize quality control procedures to assess the analytical results and interpret patient results, correlate them with other test results and indicate any follow-up tests. Discover the function and chemical pathology of the various body systems in relation to laboratory analysis. In laboratory settings, demonstrate proper laboratory techniques, competent use of instrumentation and critical problem solving to produce timely, accurate and precise test results. Evaluation of learning is conducted through a range of theory based written assessments, and practical laboratory techniques and skills demonstrations. Prerequisite(s): All of Term 1 courses course outline | 6.0
Level 3 (September to December) | Credits
MLSC 2320 | Transfusion Science 2 Builds upon information covered in Transfusion Science 1. Covers the identification of irregular antibodies, complex patient presentations, and hemolytic disease of the newborn. Learning is assessed through a combination of exams, quizzes, assignments, and laboratory work. Prerequisite(s): MLSC 1320 All Level 2 courses course outline | 4.0
MLSC 2325 | Clinical Chemistry 2 Apply theory and laboratory practices to correlate knowledge of clinical chemistry to patient test results and determine the validity of testing data based on sample acceptability criteria, quality assurance/ quality control criteria, and the correlation of test results with patient symptoms, diagnosis, and other related analyte concentrations. Gain knowledge and skills in handling priority testing and critical alert values. New concepts, topics and methods of analysis emphasized in the lectures are practiced in the laboratory sessions. Through various simulation activities, both self-directed and cooperative learning will be used to evaluate clinically relevant case studies and laboratory scenarios. Evaluation of learning is conducted through a range of theory based written assessments, and practical laboratory and skills demonstrations. ​ Prerequisite(s): MLSC 2315 AND All Term 2 courses course outline | 5.5
MLSC 2330 | Histology 1 This course introduces the histological principles, instrumentation and procedures required in the clinical Anatomical Pathology laboratory. Students will study human microscopic tissue recognition (microanatomy), grossing, fixation, tissue processing, decalcification, paraffin embedding, microtomy, histology safety and histology quality management. Laboratory activities will include microscopic evaluation of digital tissue sections, grossing, embedding, microtomy, and methods for routine morphological assessment, quality control, quality assurance and troubleshooting. Evaluation methods include assessment of knowledge via quizzes and exams and performance of practical skills via skills assessments.​ Prerequisite(s): All Term 2 courses course outline | 5.0
MLSC 3300 | Hematology 2 ​​The learner will apply theory and laboratory practices previously studied in Level 1 and Level 2 with an emphasis on safe work practices, pre-analytical assessment of specimens, quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC), automated CBC results and peripheral blood film (PBF) findings. The foundational concepts of hematopoiesis, erythrocyte (RBC) and leukocyte (WBC) metabolism, and platelets (PLT's) introduced in Hematology 1 will be studied in greater detail for both whole blood and body fluids. Study will transition into the investigation of pathologies of all 3 cell lines. Stained PBF's will be evaluated to identify important morphologic changes in blood cells and correlate their presence with a variety of hematologic disorders. Detailed case studies on selected major hematologic disorders will be completed, including a PBF evaluation and identification/ interpretation of characteristic laboratory findings. Students will correlate theory with laboratory applications to prepare them appropriately for the competency-based objectives they will be required to meet during their clinical practice rotations of the MLS program. Prerequisite(s): All MLSC Level 2 courses. course outline | 5.0
MLSC 3309 | Clinical Microbiology 3 This course focuses primarily on antimicrobials and antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST). Learners study drug classes and their generations, modes of action and target sites, usual lethality (bactericidal vs bacteriostatic), spectrum of activity, toxicity and/or hypersensitivity. The history and evolution of AST in modern medicine is introduced. Current AST techniques, conventional and automated methods, as well as the screening and confirmation of mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance, are taught and practiced in the laboratory sessions. Reporting strategies recommended by the Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) are introduced. In preparation for the next course, Specimen Processing in the Microbiology Laboratory is introduced. Theory and laboratory practice emphasize safety and quality control. Collaborative laboratory workshops and assignments enhance critical thinking, problem solving, and team-based interpersonal skills. Learning is assessed through online learning activities, unit exams, laboratory practical activities and workshops, along with formal laboratory and theory exams. Prerequisite(s): All Level 2 courses and MLSC 2309 course outline | 3.5
Level 4 (January to May) | Credits
MLSC 2304 | Specimen Procurement 2 Develop competence in procuring specimens by venipuncture and capillary puncture. Ensure that appropriate specimens are collected according to established protocols while interacting with clients/ patients in a professional manner, employing effective communication strategies and exercising professional behaviours that support the ethical obligations expected in clinical settings. Through supervised laboratory practice, demonstrate venous and capillary collection techniques, and work towards independent performance with a level of knowledge, skill, and judgement consistent with readiness to proceed to clinical placement. Evaluation of learning is conducted through a range of theory based written assessments, and demonstration of laboratory procedures. Prerequisite(s): All Level 3 courses and MSLC 1304 course outline | 2.0
MLSC 2310 | Hemostasis Apply theory and laboratory practices previously studied in Hematology 1 and 2 with an emphasis on the theoretical principles associated with the evaluation of hemostasis including important foundational concepts, components and mechanisms of hemostasis; this will include the study of automated coagulation analyzers QC practices will be emphasized to ensure that reliable test results are obtained and each laboratory procedure will be studied in detail including: test principles, methods, and limitations of the tests, interfering substances and corrective actions necessary to limit the effects of these on patient samples. Test results will be assessed according to established reference ranges and critical alert values, including follow-up when abnormal and/or implausible test results are obtained. You will continue to apply Complete Blood Count (CBC) and Peripheral Blood Film (PBF) interpretations and reporting practices as taught in Hematology 1 and 2. Prerequisite(s): All Term 3 courses course outline | 2.0
MLSC 3314 | Molecular Diagnostics 2 ​This course builds on nucleic acid testing (NAT) fundamentals from MLSC 1314 & MLSC 2314 and applies them to clinical molecular analysis of human genomic sequences. The goal of this course is to apply molecular diagnostic principles to identify nucleic acid sequences, and assess results, identify sources of interference/error, initiate corrective action and/or follow up testing. NAT technologies discussed in detail include singleplex and multiplex amplification by real-time PCR using dye and probe detection chemistries. Human cellular processes of transcription and translation will be built upon, basic human genetics, and standard nomenclature describing genomic DNA sequence variants will be overviewed. The molecular basis of select disease phenotypes will be discussed, with focus on the advantages and limitations of NAT relative to phenotypic testing. Select other molecular testing methodologies used in the clinical lab to identify DNA polymorphisms and mutations will be discussed. Prerequisite(s): All Level 3 courses and MSLC 2314 course outline | 2.5
MLSC 3315 | Clinical Chemistry 3 Real life clinical work environments are simulated in the laboratory sessions which emphasize pre-analytical assessment of specimens, quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC), priority testing, manual and automated chemistry analysis, correlation of patient test results, and post-analytical requirements. Evaluate protein electrophoresis and body fluid analysis by examining detailed case studies and interpreting characteristic laboratory findings from laboratory instrumentation. Apply theoretical principles of therapeutic drug monitoring and clinical toxicology testing and laboratory methodologies to determine/confirm drug identification and its levels, poisons, heavy metals, trace elements and other chemical agents. Evaluation of learning is conducted through a range of theory based written assessments, and practical laboratory and skills demonstrations. Prerequisite(s): MLSC 2325 AND All Term 3 courses course outline | 4.0
MLSC 3320 | Transfusion Science 3 Builds upon information covered in MLSC 1320 -Transfusion Science 1 and MLSC 2320 – Transfusion Science 2. Introduces special transfusion situations, transfusion therapy and complex patient presentations through case studies. Covers perinatal testing and hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn. Learning is assessed through a combination of exams, quizzes, assignments, and laboratory work. complex patient presentations, and hemolytic disease of the newborn. Prerequisite(s): All Level 2 courses and MLSC 2320 course outline | 3.0
MLSC 3330 | Histology 2 This course expands on the histological principles and instrumentation required for the clinical Anatomical Pathology laboratory mastered in Histology 1. Topics of study include human microscopic tissue recognition of tissue and organ systems (microanatomy), microtomy, stain theory, routine stains, special stains, immunohistochemistry and in-situ hybridization. In addition to continued grossing, embedding and microtomy, laboratory activities include microscopic evaluation of digital tissue sections, reagent preparation, performing special stains, IHC, special histology procedures, troubleshooting and improving the quality and quantity of microtomy and staining results. Prerequisite(s): MLSC 2330 AND All Term 3 courses course outline | 5.5
MLSC 4309 | Clinical Microbiology 4 Concepts introduced in previous microbiology courses are integrated and applied. Infections are studied by body system, with companion laboratory exercises designed to simulate the workflow of routine specimens received in clinical microbiology laboratories. Common pathogens are presented in simulated cultures, which students work through following specific protocols, emulating those used in the modern clinical laboratory. Students are guided to recognize pathogens among normal or contaminating microbiome. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) techniques, introduced previously are now applied: AST is performed, interpreted and reported following protocols appropriate to both the pathogen and the specimen site. Students learn to prepare clinically accurate reports, reporting both pathogen identifications and their antibiograms. Theory and laboratory practice emphasize safety and quality control. Collaborative laboratory workshops and assignments enhance critical thinking, problem solving, and team-based interpersonal skills. Learning is assessed through a variety of learning activities, unit specific laboratory activities and workshops, midterm exams, skills assessments as well as formal laboratory and final theory exams. Prerequisite(s): MLSC 3309 All Term 3 courses. course outline | 6.0
Level 5 (June to February) | Credits
BHSC 2300 | Self and Others 2: Applications Develop core skills for effective communication and interpersonal interactions for Medical Laboratory Technologists within the health care team, including concepts such as communication skills, establishing and maintaining a relationship with clients and others, caring, empathy, and courtesy. Uses an experiential and self-reflective approach to develop self-awareness, an increased understanding of self, and how one's own interpersonal style affects others. Respecting and responding sensitively to individuals with cultural or other intersectional diversity is emphasized. Teamwork exercises and learning activities include discussions, role-play, and case study analysis. Learning is assessed through a mix of theoretical exams, skills demonstrations and presentations. Prerequisite(s): All Level 4 courses and BHSC 1300 course outline | 1.0
COMM 2370 | Communications for Medical Laboratory Science 2 This course will present strategic principles and technical practices for the development of effective resume and cover letter writing skills, as well as networking and interviewing skills. Students will participate in a range of activities including self assessment, tactical job search strategies, and simulation exercises, including an interview. This format will provide current theory, guidance, and practical experience through examples and application. Assessment will be based on the successful development and completion of a comprehensive personal career package of relevant skills and abilities.​ Prerequisite(s): COMM 1370 AND All Term 4 courses course outline | 1.0
MLSC 2219 | Integrative Medical Laboratory Studies 2 Concurrently with the clinical placement, students utilize the online platform to explore the theory and application of quality management systems in the clinical laboratory; critical analysis and ethical practice; and Interprofessional Collaboration. Applying critical thinking and problem solving skills to case studies and clinical placement experiences allow the learner to integrate prior knowledge of pathophysiology and laboratory methodology in identifying normal and abnormal patterns of analytical results. Students will work individually, in groups, and in interprofessional teams on cases and associated project work, which helps to prepare them for the national certification exam. Evaluation of learning is conducted through a range theory based written assessments and quizzes, online discussions, and projects. Prerequisite(s): All Level 4 courses and MLSC 1218 course outline | 5.5
MLSC 4350 | Clinical Placement ​An intensive, full-time, 35 week long clinical placement in one or more settings enables the real-world application of theoretical knowledge and laboratory practice gained throughout the program. All competencies required for entry-level practice, and credential examination are developed in live settings. Safety, quality control, and accurate testing and documentation are expected without exception. Professional competencies of collaboration, ethical decision making, problem solving, communication, and scope of practice are expected and evaluated on site. Documentation of clinical activities and performance are evaluated by clinical educators (preceptors) and overseen by institute faculty. Prerequisite(s): All Term 4 courses. course outline | 52.5
Total Credits: | 156.5
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
The Medical Laboratory Science (MLS) program curriculum is designed to prepare the student for work within the clinical laboratory. Curriculum and program objectives are built based on the state of practice in the BC medical laboratory community, and on competencies established by the Canadian Alliance of Medical Laboratory Professionals Regulators (CAMLPR) for entry-level medical laboratory technology.
The program provides theoretical, practical and clinical learning experiences. In this competency-based model, students have the opportunity to first practice, and then demonstrate, competency in a variety of clinical testing domains, including phlebotomy. Students prove competence through experiences in a clinical setting. Successful completion of this program requires proof of competence in all aspects of the general competency profile [PDF] for CAMPLR Entry-to-Practice as a medical laboratory technologist. Upon completion of the program, students are eligible to write the General Medical Laboratory Technologist entry-to-practice exam. Successful completion of the exam enables one to apply for registration to practice medical laboratory technology across Canada.
BCIT arranges clinical placements for each student. Clinical placements are located in a variety of accredited laboratories throughout BC including the Interior, the Kootenay region, Vancouver Island and the Greater Metro Vancouver area. Not all clinical facilities are easily accessible by public transportation, students assigned to these sites must have access to personal transportation. Students are responsible for travel, accommodation arrangements and costs to, during and from their clinical experience. Students continue with their didactic studies thru on-line learning while on their clinical placement and stable internet access is required.
Note: For clinical site assignment, an automated matching program is used, where students input their preferences for clinical placements. However, there is no guarantee that students will receive a clinical site assignment from their list of preferred sites. Students must be prepared to attend their assigned placement at any of the clinical sites in the province.
### Clinical partners
- Dynacare
- Fraser Health Authority
- Interior Health Authority
- LifeLabs Medical Laboratory Services
- Providence Health Authority
- Provincial Health Services Authority
- Vancouver Coastal Health Authority
- Vancouver Island Health Authority
### Program length
Two and a half years, full-time, beginning in September each year.
The program consists of four on-campus terms and one clinical term. The first term begins in September for 15 weeks, followed by a January term for 20 weeks. Students then break for the summer, returning in September for a 15-week term and a 19-week term starting in January. Shortly after students complete the fourth term, they progress to a 35-week clinical placement. Students will write the national CAMLPR exam in March, after they have successfully completed the program.
### Grading
All MLS didactic courses require 60% in each of their components to pass. Clinical experience is competency based and therefore has a satisfactory/ unsatisfactory grade.
To continue from one level of the program to the next, all courses must be successfully completed in each level. To graduate, all courses must be successfully completed, including the online learning materials which supports the Term 5 clinical placement.
### Accreditation
This program is accredited by the Health Standards Organization (HSO) and its affiliate accreditation (AC) through their new EQUAL Canada program .
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
### Program structure
2.5 years, full-time Begins in September each year
Four on-campus terms, one clinical term:
Graduation date: February CAMLPR exam date: March
### Continue your education
The Canadian healthcare system is constantly evolving with the establishment of new responsibilities for care and treatment. Entering the Medical Laboratory Science field means that you are prepared for lifelong learning as your chosen career continues to change. Opportunities exist for graduates to continue training into laboratory information systems, advanced medical laboratory practice and management. Graduates also pursue opportunities in the areas of laboratory instrument sales and technical support, research and medical laboratory education.
On completion of the diploma program and Medical Laboratory Technologist Entry-to-Practice exam with CAMLPR, students are eligible to apply for degree transfer into year 3 of the Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Science program at the University of British Columbia (UBC). With appropriate prerequisite work in undergraduate general science courses, it is anticipated that a time frame of approximately five years full-time will allow for completion of both the BCIT diploma and UBC BMLSc degree.
## Graduating & Jobs
### Our graduates get work
Employers know to expect the best from BCIT grads. Across the country, our grads are working in medical laboratories and providing accurate, high-quality medical testing so that patients receive the best healthcare possible.
After writing the Canadian Alliance of Medical Laboratory Professionals Regulators (CAMPLR) exam for medical laboratory technologists, most of our students find work within two months of graduation.
Get more information regarding Med Lab Technologist careers and salaries from the WorkBC website .
### Career opportunities
MLT careers often start in hospitals and private clinics, working in core labs performing high value, automated testing. It’s a job that requires precision, technical skills, and analytical thinking. Starting wage of approximately $35/hour.
Other career paths that offer opportunities to advance or specialize your career include:
- Administrative and coordinator positions
- Laboratory information management systems (LIS)
- Public health laboratories
- Canadian Blood Services
- BC Laboratory Centre for Disease Control
- Veterinary and industrial laboratories
- Pharmaceutical and biological supply houses
- Sales and technical representatives for private companies
- Research and development
Still curious as to what Medical Laboratory Technologists do on the job? See WorkBC’s episode 63 video explaining the skills required to succeed as a Medical Laboratory Technologist.
### Keep learning
Want to advance your education? After graduating, complete a Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Science program through the University of British Columbia.
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Medical Laboratory Science
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
Julien Pho Program Head Email: Julien_pho@bcit.ca
Donna O’Neill , MLT (CSMLS) Clinical Coordinator Tel: 604-456-8145 Email: donna_o’neill@bcit.ca
Georgia Chan Program Assistant Tel: 604-419-3701 Email: Medical_Laboratory_Science@bcit.ca
The Medical Laboratory program faculty are all CSMLS certified (Canadian Society of Medical Laboratory Science).
## Internationally Trained?
Note: BCIT is not currently offering any refresher courses for internationally-trained technologists. Your first step is to connect with CAMLPR for information about becoming certified as a medical laboratory technologist in Canada (see links below).
To work as a medical laboratory technologist in BC, you must be certified by the Canadian Alliance of Medical Laboratory Professionals Regulators (CAMLPR). The general certification includes clinical chemistry, hematology, clinical microbiology, histology, and transfusion science (also called blood transfusion).
The CAMLPR offers credential assessment services to help internationally trained technologists assess their eligibility for certification:
Canadian Alliance of Medical Laboratory Professionals Regulators (CAMLPR) PO Box 21102 RPO Charleswood Winnipeg, MB R3R 3R2 t: 1-431-804-4740 w: www.camlpr.org
### Additional resources for Internationally Educated Medical Laboratory Technologists (IEMLT)
CSMLS Medical Laboratory Assistant Certification Process BCSLS BC Society of Laboratory Science
## FAQ
### Program details FAQs
- How big are the classes?
- Can I do this program part-time?
- Can I apply for transfer credit for my college/university courses?
- I plan on working part time while going to school. What does the program recommend?
- How many hours per week will I spend on school work?
- Am I responsible for costs throughout clinical placement?
- Where will I do my clinical placement?
- Is there a pathway to degree completion?
- What if I am colour blind?
- What if I am hearing impaired?
### Program admission FAQs
- How competitive is the program, and is there a wait list?
- Can I apply to the program while I’m working on meeting the prerequisites, or do I need to wait until all are complete?
- What if I have the prerequisites, but they are from more than 5-years ago?
- I did not receive a ‘B’ in English 12, will my post-secondary English marks be considered?
- I need to meet the English 12 requirement, what are my options?
- What if I write challenge exams and do not achieve the necessary grade?
- Do you consider out of country credentials as meeting the prerequisite requirements for the MLS program?
- Do you consider GPA in the selection process?
- What can I do to prepare myself for success in the selection process?
- I have met prerequisites for the program. What post-secondary courses can you recommend to support my success in the program?
###
### How big are the classes?
Lectures are a cohort of 96 students, and in sets of 24 for laboratory activities.
Top
### Can I do this program part-time?
The program is only offered in a full-time format.
Top
### Can I apply for transfer credit for my college/university courses?
Transfer credits are only offered for BHSC courses in the first and second term of the program. If you have a Medical Laboratory Assistant (MLA) Certification and are actively working as an MLA, you may qualify for credits for MLSC 1304 and MLSC 2304. If you feel you have completed courses equivalent to the ones mentioned above, you may apply for individual transfer credit. Applications must be submitted at least two weeks prior to term start.
Refer to Admission & Registration .
Top
### I plan on working part time, while going to school. What does the program recommend?
Working part-time is not recommended, given the rigorous expectations of the program.
Top
### How many hours per week will I spend on school work?
In terms 1-4 prepare to be in class from 0830 to 1630, Monday through Friday. An average of 4-5 hours homework per day can be anticipated.
During clinical placement, students need to be prepared to be scheduled for morning, afternoon, evening, weekend, or night shifts.
Top
### Am I responsible for costs throughout clinical placement?
You are responsible for all transportation, accommodation, and personal expenses throughout the clinical placement.
Top
### Where will I do my clinical placement?
### Is there a pathway to degree completion?
Upon graduation and CAMPLR Certification, students are eligible to apply for entry into third year of the Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Science program at the University of British Columbia (UBC). With appropriate prerequisite work in undergraduate general science courses, it is anticipated that a time frame of less than five years full-time will allow for completion of both the BCIT diploma and the UBC BMLSc degree.
Top
### What if I am colour blind?
Many test results are based on the medical laboratory technologist’s ability to differentiate colours. If you are unable to discern colour differences, you will find it difficult to successfully complete the program. In addition, your employment opportunities will be limited as some laboratories cannot hire individuals who are colour blind.
Top
### What if I am hearing impaired?
Technologists must be able to communicate with patients and the healthcare team. The majority of this communication is spoken, whether face to face or over the telephone. Depending on the severity of your hearing impairment, your opportunities for a successful clinical experience and your opportunity for employment may be limited.
Top
### How competitive is the program and is there a wait list?
We typically interview 160-180 applicants for 96 seats in the program. Acceptance is based on the ranked aggregate score achieved during the selection process.
Participants who are not among the top 96 will be placed on a wait list for the current intake, in the event a seat becomes available. The wait list is cleared once the program intake is full and closed; unsuccessful applicants must re-apply to be considered for the next intake.
Top
### Can I apply to the program while I’m working on meeting the prerequisites or do I wait until all are complete?
You can only apply when you have fully met the academic requirements. An exception can be made if you are in the process of completing prerequisite courses and can submit midterm reports. Refer to Using Your Midterm Grades for information on submitting midterm marks. When submitting midterm marks, your final marks should be submitted no later than one month prior to the start of the program.
Top
### What if I have the prerequisites, but they are from more than 5-years ago?
There is no longer a recency requirement or preference for pre-requisites. However, if you have not recently studied health sciences or worked in a science-related role, upgrading may help prepare you for the program. You have the option to either write challenge exams or complete upgrading courses through your local school district or post-secondary institution. Challenge exams exist for Biology, Math, and Chemistry.
Top
### I did not receive a ‘B’ in English 12, will my post-secondary English marks be considered?
Yes, refer to Admission & Registration .
Top
### I need to meet the English 12 requirement, what are my options?
There are a number of upgrading and assessment test options available .
Top
### What if I write challenge exams and do not achieve the necessary grade?
You will have only one opportunity to write each challenge exam. If you are unsuccessful, you must then upgrade to meet prerequisites. A student who registers and writes a challenge exam a second time will be given the mark from their first attempt.
Top
### Do you consider out of country credentials as meeting the prerequisite requirements for the MLS program?
Please refer to Admission & Registration for information on International high school equivalencies. Please note we will be looking for courses that meet equivalency, recency, and the relevant letter grade criteria.
Top
### Do you consider GPA in the selection process?
Yes, GPA is used in the departmental review process to short list applicants.
Top
### What can I do to prepare myself for success in the selection process?
The program looks for well-rounded individuals who will be successful as students and as future medical laboratory technologists (MLT). Ensure that you have researched what it means to be an MLT and be prepared for a formal assessment process.
Top
### I have met prerequisites for the program. What post-secondary courses can you recommend to support my success in the program?
We recommend post-secondary courses in Human Anatomy and Physiology and other medical laboratory-related courses.
Top
## Publications
### BCIT and Lifelabs Collaborates on Chapter in Open Education Pathology Textbook
“The British Columbia Institute of Technology (BCIT) and LifeLabs, Canada’s leading provider of medical diagnostic services, are excited to announce their collaboration on the latest chapter of a groundbreaking Open Education Pathology Textbook , a collaboration between BCIT and UBC. This new chapter, centred around blood and blood tests, offers an engaging and informative resource that transcends borders, benefiting healthcare professionals, students, and curious minds across the globe.
In our collaboration with BCIT, we’ve contributed to a resource that educates and inspires a diverse worldwide audience,” said Charles Brown, President and CEO of LifeLabs. “This chapter underscores the importance of accessible education and the advancement of medical laboratory science globally.
Co-authored by Dr. Jennifer Kong and Emily Frawley, MLT (CSMLS, ASCP), two distinguished health sciences faculty members at BCIT, the chapter delves into the riveting process of collecting, processing, interpreting, and reporting blood test results.”
Source: Amy Chen, BCIT News
## Contact Us
Phone: 604-456-1257
Email: Medical_Laboratory_Science@bcit.ca
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
