URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/mineral-exploration-and-mining-technology-diploma-full-time-6640dipma/
Title: Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology
Diploma Full-time School of Construction and the Environment
## Overview
Note: The continuation options for students in this program have changed. At this time, diploma students do not have the option to continue to the Bachelor of Engineering in Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering program. This degree program has been suspended, effective for the Fall 2026 term. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi .
Delivery: in person. See details .
The Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology program focuses on geology, mining methods, exploration technology, surveying, and computer applications for mining operations and mineral explorations. Students learn hands-on science and engineering skills, and complete an industry-standard report during the second year of the full-time program.
Mining is a cornerstone industry of many communities throughout BC and Canada and it is a major contributor to our economy. Canada is recognized as a world leader in mineral exploration and mining, and our expertise is exported around the world to help discover, develop, and operate mines.
As one of the largest users of high-technology equipment and applications, the mining industry requires practitioners who have the skills necessary to keep up with these advances. Virtually all technical jobs within mining and mineral exploration, including geology, engineering, mineral processing, environmental assessment and surveying, require post-secondary education.
If you are interested in a varied work environment, in the office, lab or field, and like solving scientific problems, this program will appeal to you. Take the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology program, the only program of its kind in Western Canada.
We also offer a variety of flexible learning courses.
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
Applications are accepted during the following periods:
Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intake may fill before the deadline.
### Entrance requirements
Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Physics 11 (67%)
- Chemistry 11 (67%)
- Math: one of the following:
- Pre-Calculus 12 (67%) or
- Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
### Recommended for success
- Completion of Earth Sciences 11 and Geology 12 is strongly recommended. Applicants who have completed Earth Sciences 11 and Geology 12 are eligible to apply for a BCIT course credit in MINE 1101 .
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program does not meet the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is therefore not eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
( CIPC : 15.0901)
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through re-admission . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications: you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry: if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability: confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
Please contact the Student Coordinator or Program Head to determine if you qualify for advanced placement in this program.
### Re-admission
You can apply for re-admission if you:
- were previously admitted to this program and completed part of it at BCIT and
- want to re-enter the program at an advanced level.
Submit the Course-by-Course Self-Assessment form [PDF] with your online application.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
## Costs & Supplies
The information below will help you determine the cost of taking the program and assist you in developing a budget for your study.
### Mining field courses and trips
In addition to tuition fees, books, supplies and equipment, students will incur expenses for field trips and field courses.
The Mineral Exploration and Mining department runs a number of field trips and courses to various mining and geological sites to aid and supplement classroom learning. While subsidized, these trips and courses require some financial contribution from the students. The values below do not include food, which is typically the student’s responsibility on field trips. Please note that trips are optional, but courses are not. Values are subject to change at the department’s discretion.
1st Year: No fee
2nd Year: $250 course fee (MINE 4108), and a separate $250 trip fee
3rd Year: $500 course fee (MINE 6020)
### Awards & Scholarships
Entrance Awards:
John Salisbury Memorial Entrance Scholarships Two entrance scholarships valued at $5,000 each are currently available to incoming students. Additional awards may be added prior to the application deadline.
Application deadline: April 15
Program awards and scholarships:
Students in the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology Diploma may also be eligible for the following awards:
- Over $9,000 available annually for current students , based on academic achievement
- Over $18,000 available to graduates of the program
These awards recognize academic excellence and support students as they progress through the program and into their careers in the mining industry.
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
Level 1: $1,300; Level 2: $400; Level 3: $600; Level 4: $600 (general estimated cost, and subject to change)
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
### Program matrix
Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHEM 1105 | Chemistry 1 for Mining CHEM 1105 covers topics of general chemistry including atomic structure, chemical formulas, stoichiometry, aqueous reactions and concentrations of solutions, acids and bases, periodic properties of the elements and basic concepts of chemical bonding. Laboratory exercises consist of qualitative and quantitative analysis and acid-base chemistry. The emphasis is on applications of chemical principles, chemical calculations and analysis, and the development of good laboratory skills. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
COMM 1135 | Technical Communication 1 Students learn how to write letters, memos, and routine email messages. They learn to write clear and concise sentences and paragraphs and to make documents easily accessible through headings, lists and white space. They learn how to avoid some common grammatical errors in their writing. They also learn to give an oral report based on library and online research on a new development in their technology. In addition, they learn how to prepare a resume and job application letter and fill out a job application form. Students also learn how to collaborate as part of a team to accomplish work related communication tasks. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
COMP 1620 | Computer Essentials This course starts with a basic overview of personal computer hardware, how a PC works and how to get the most functionality out of a Windows based computer. Students will focus on the Windows operating system and become accomplished at using its graphical user interface (GUI) for desktop navigation and managing files. Discussions will also include the technical aspects of using Windows for networking and troubleshooting. Topics include: An introduction to PC hardware, functions of an operating system (OS), file and disk management, backing up and protecting data, troubleshooting, networking, security, virus protection and firewalls. Students will also gain experience in utilizing Excel to develop well formatted spreadsheets. Topics will include user interface elements, using formulae and built-in functions, editing and formatting, custom numeric and data formatting, working with tables and charts, sorting and filtering, pivot tables, slicers, pivot charts, and graphic objects. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 1501 | Technical Mathematics for Mining This course covers; equations and Relations including polynomial, conic, power, exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric, and systems. Applications are stressed including graphical linear programming, exponential/logarithmic transformations, common and natural logarithms and logarithmic/semi-logarithmic graphs, radian measure and its applications. Solid geometry, formula creation, unit analysis, and math/computer models are important skills. Also taught are vectors and solution of triangles, with applications in forces, motions and navigation. The goal of this course is to develop skills at defining, solving and presenting mining and exploration industry related problems using the basic mathematical skills taught in this course. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
MINE 1100 | Introduction to the Minerals Industry Introduces students to the wide scope of the mining industry and prepares them for further courses in mining. The course covers the breadth of the industry from mineral exploration through to processing and marketing of mining products. The importance of environmental considerations and sustainable development are introduced. Students will learn the terminology used in the industry in preparation for further courses taught during the program. Except for online courses, a visit to an active mining operation will form part of the course curriculum. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MINE 1101 | Physical Geology Presents an overview of the processes and materials that form and shape the planet Earth. The theory of plate tectonics is introduced and used as the basis of understanding the fundamental geological processes that operate both on, and beneath the Earth's surface. The formation and characteristics of minerals and development of the geological time scale, and deformation in the Earth's crust are reviewed as are an introduction to the geology of mineral and energy deposits and the geology of North America. Laboratory work includes identification of minerals, examination of geological maps and structures, and study of geological processes. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MINE 1107 | Student Success Prepares students for success in the Mining and Mineral Exploration Program by outlining success strategies in learning, time-management, and exam preparation. It will also outline the responsibilities that students have to their class and the program. These responsibilities will be structured around the expectations of industry in a working environment and will include aspects such as attendance, participation, preparedness, punctuality, team work, respect, and quality of work. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 0.5
PHYS 1147 | Physics for Mining Technology 1 Covers data analysis, linear and rotational kinematics and dynamics, equilibrium, work, energy and power, stress and strain. The laboratory deals with the principles of measurement and the experimental method of acquiring knowledge. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
SURV 1145 | Surveying for Mining 1 Covers fundamental concepts and principles of surveying; datums, principle of differential leveling, bench mark and detail leveling, peg-test, grades, use of levels, theodolites and steel chains; linear measurements; angle measurements and reductions, directions, bearings, coordinate systems; gradients and cut and fill; field note keeping and reductions; care, maintenance and adjustment of equipment. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Level 2 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHEM 2205 | Chemistry 2 for Mining Continues from CHEM 1105 and covers topics of inorganic chemistry including solubility equilibria, buffer solutions, oxidation and reduction reactions, electrochemistry, physical and chemical properties of gases, liquids and solids, phase diagrams and intermolecular forces. Electrochemistry includes electrochemical cells, applications of electrolysis, electrometallurgy, and corrosion. Lab work covers a variety of topics including electrochemical cells, ion exchange, spectrophotometric analysis, water hardness and alkalinity indices. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CHEM 1105 course outline | 5.0
MATH 2502 | Calculus 1 for Mining This course covers the following topics: functions and graphs; limits and continuity, the Intermediate Value Theorem; differentiation rules for algebraic, trigonometric, logarithmic and exponential functions and inverse trigonometric functions; applications of differentiation; Newton’s method; analytic geometry; anti-differentiation. Applications to the mining industry will be utilized. Problem-solving skills and solution presentation will be emphasized. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1501 course outline | 5.0
MINE 2101 | Mineralogy and Petrology Examines the formation, characteristics and classification of minerals and rocks. The crystallographic, chemical and physical properties of minerals, and the important rock-forming and economic mineral groups are discussed. Igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks and their relationship to mineral deposits are reviewed. The processes of rock formation are illustrated through a review of the geological evolution of British Columbia and other parts of North America. Laboratory exercises focus on the field identification of minerals and rocks and the interpretation of geological maps. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 1101 course outline | 4.0
MINE 2105 | Surface Mining and Blasting This course examines in detail aspects of design, planning, operation and equipment maintenance for surface mines. Rock fragmentation theory, drilling and blasting practices as applied to the surface mines will be discussed. Topics include: mining methods, mine planning and pit optimization, production scheduling, grade control and dilution, surface mining equipment, maintenance, road design, drilling and blasting design. Types of mining operations discussed include hard rock open pits, open cast coal mines and quarrying operations for industrial minerals. The concepts of cut-off grade and stripping ratio are discussed in details and practiced. Lerchs and Grossmann pit optimization algorithm is discussed and practiced. Surface mining equipment are introduced and compared. Production of mining equipment fleet will be discussed and related calculations are practiced. An introduction to equipment maintenance will be discussed. Basic concepts of road design such as layouts, different curves, stopping distance and regulations are discussed. Information will be presented on various types of commercial explosives and blasting agents and their safe handling. Methods of initiation and timing of blasts will be discussed along with means to monitor and reduce blast vibration and damage. A basic blasting design will be addressed. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 1100 course outline | 4.0
MINE 2107 | Exploration and Mine Safety Provides an overview of key safety issues encountered in mineral exploration and mining work environments as well as the completion of WHMIS on-line course and Worksafe BC Occupational First Aid Level 1. Topics that will be discussed include the development of safe working habits, personal safety gear, work in remote camp settings, safe travel in the field, animal awareness, safe operation around aircraft, watercraft and heavy equipment, mine rescue, and hazards associated with mine gasses and fires. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
MINE 2109 | CAD for Mining The course presents an introduction to the functions and use of AutoCAD and AutoCAD 3D Civil for solving different mining problems. Mining design software for engineering, surveying, and reclamation will be introduced. AutoCAD serves as a graphic engine and drawing editor. Mine design software that can be considered as an extension of AutoCAD will be used to add commands and enhancements for earthmoving and engineering. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMP 1620 course outline | 3.0
PHYS 2147 | Physics for Mining Technology 2 Covers behaviours of fluids, thermal properties of matter, waves, electricity, magnetism, electromagnetic induction, DC and AC circuits. The lab component is comprised of experiments to complement the lectures. Prerequisite(s): 50% in PHYS 1147 course outline | 5.0
SURV 2145 | Surveying for Mining 2 Covers computations and adjustments of integrated traverses; triangulation; trigonometric leveling; horizontal curves; road and building layouts, drill pattern layouts; cut and fill, area and volume calculations; introduction to total stations; introduction to GPS theory and applications. Prerequisite(s): SURV 1145 course outline | 3.0
Level 3 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHSC 3314 | Mineral Processing 1 This is the first course of a two course series on the theory and practice of mineral processing. Minerals and ores are defined along with their formation and dispersion in earth's crust. Distinction is made between mineral processing and extractive metallurgy; methods by which metals are extracted from minerals are mentioned. Mass balancing methods, drawing and interpretation of mineral process flowsheets explained. Sampling techniques, particle size measurement methods, size distribution analysis, comminution theory, size reduction by crushing and grinding, industrial screening and factors affecting screen performance are introduced. Students will carry out laboratory work and produce reports in the above areas. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.5
CIVL 2225 | Statics and Strength of Materials Presents a basic introduction to the relationship between applied loads and the resulting support reactions and internal forces developed in statically determinate members and structures. The course is delivered through lectures and problem solving sessions. Topics include classification of force systems, equilibrium equations, freebody diagrams, support conditions and reactions, truss analysis, load, shear force and bending moment diagrams for beams, and friction. This course lays the foundation for subsequent civil engineering courses taught to mining students. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1501 course outline | 3.0
MINE 3101 | Structural Geology Reviews the formation, characteristics and geometry of crustal deformation structures. The concepts of stress and strain and the mechanisms of deformation provide the background for a descriptive analysis of common deformation structures including joints, veins, faults, folds, planar and linear deformation fabrics and shear zones. The relationships between geological structures, mineral deposits and mining are examined throughout the course, as are the links between deformation and plate tectonics. Laboratory exercises focus on the visualization and graphical solution to three-dimensional structural problems and structural geology map problems. Some labs will involve analysis of structures in the field. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 2101 and MATH 1501 course outline | 4.5
MINE 3105 | Underground Mining Examines in detail the design, planning and operation of underground mines. Mining methods for different materials will be discussed with the emphasis on hard rock mining. The criteria for correct selection of underground mining methods will be presented in the context of orebody characteristics, required productivity and safety issues. Topics will include: general mine design, ground support requirements and techniques, sizes and types of underground openings, production planning, development and production cycles, mining equipment, mine ventilation and mine infrastructure. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 1100 course outline | 4.0
MINE 3106 | Mineral Deposits Provides an overview of the processes of formation and principle characteristics of major mineral deposits. Mineral deposit formation is discussed by considering the source, transportation and deposition of metals and minerals and the textures, forms and mineral alteration of common mineral deposits. This is followed by a survey of major mineral deposit types including precious and base metals, diamonds, coal and industrial minerals. Laboratory exercises will focus on the study of rock sample suites from mineral deposits in British Columbia and elsewhere in North America. Some labs will involve analysis of structures in the field. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 2101 course outline | 4.5
MINE 3107 | Introduction to Soil and Rock Mechanics This course introduces the fundamentals of soil and rock mechanics, and the objectives and techniques of geotechnical data collection used for mining construction projects and operations. Concepts of stability of surface soil and rock slopes and underground rock excavations are presented in the context of in situ rock mass stress and rock mass structure. Support systems commonly utilized in underground and surface excavations are discussed with respect to their applications and safety requirements. Exercises will focus on geotechnical field mapping, graphical data presentation, core logging, soil classification methods, and rock strength testing. Soil and rock engineering properties will be introduced by laboratory tests during the lecture hours. Laboratory tests will include; soil classification methods, standard soil compaction and shear tests, uniaxial compressive (UCS) testing of rock cores and point load testing of rock specimens. A day-long mine site field trip for rock mapping and testing exercises will be conducted in the second part of the term. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1501 and MINE 2105 course outline | 5.0
MINE 3109 | Computer Applications for Exploration This course introduces students to the fundamentals of exploration databases and spatial data management. GIS technology will be applied to the mapping, display, and analysis of mineral exploration data. Topics covered include fundamental concepts, definitions, organization of databases and GIS; data integration and conversion; spatial and non-spatial query, analysis, display and reporting. Quality assurance and quality control of exploration databases will be discussed. Labs will develop skills in the use of GIS and database software for managing and analyzing mineral exploration data. Prerequisite(s): COMP 1620 course outline | 3.0
SURV 3345 | Surveying Applications SURV 3345 builds on the foundations of SURV 2145 and covers the technical aspects of surveying in a mining environment. This includes the electronic data collection of survey data using Total Stations and the subsequent survey computations. Prerequisite(s): MINE 2109SURV 2145 course outline | 2.0
Level 4 (17 weeks) | Credits
CHSC 4406 | Assaying and Geochemistry Covers methods for the determination of a wide variety of elements in various sample types related to mining. Emphasis is placed on selection of the most suitable technique for the particular samples under investigation. Techniques include precious metals by fire assaying, geochemical analysis, classical wet assaying and analytical instrumentation. Modern sampling theories are used to explain the critical requirement and importance of a representative sample. Sample contamination avoidance strategy is discussed by understanding comminution techniques and cross contamination probability. Instruments used are electrochemical, UV-visible, atomic absorption, inductively coupled plasma-optical emission and mass spectrometry and X-ray (fluorescence and diffraction) methods. Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2205 course outline | 4.0
CHSC 4414 | Mineral Processing 2 Second course of a two course series on mineral processing. The focus of the course is on concentration/enrichment processes. Classification of minerals is discussed. Gravity concentration methods, dense media separation and flotation theory and practice along with dewatering processes explained. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CHSC 3314 course outline | 3.5
COMM 2451 | Technical Communications 2 In a workplace that varies from offices to tents to mountains to cities, graduates need to be able to present technical and economic facts regarding mining projects accurately and clearly, and work effectively with other professionals and teams. To ensure that students are acquiring these communication skills in a technical context that is relevant to mining and mineral exploration, this communication course is closely coordinated with the students’ major mining course. To develop their teamwork and interpersonal skills, students complete team profiling exercises, practice effective meeting strategies, participate in case-study simulations, and acquire the planning and editing skills for writing a composite team report. Students will also prepare a professional resume, an application letter, and a sample answer appropriate for a professional job interview. Prerequisite(s): COMM 1135 course outline | 3.0
MATH 3504 | Statistics Descriptive statistics, including measures of central tendency and dispersion, and graphical presentation of data using Excel. Concepts of probability, probability distributions (including binomial, normal, Poisson, log-normal and chi-square distributions). Inferential statistics, including sampling, estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, correlation and regression, and an introduction to statistical process control. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1501 course outline | 4.0
MINE 4020 | Environmental Applications This course provides an overview of environmental issues and practices that relate the mining industry. Topics include an historical overview of mining and the environment, an introduction to the principles and application of sustainability and the social license to operate, a review of the origin and control of acid rock drainage and a survey of environmental applications throughout the mining life cycle including baseline studies, the environmental assessment processes, environmental applications at operating mines, reclamation and closure. Prerequisite(s): MINE 1100 course outline | 3.0
MINE 4105 | Mine Economics and Costing This course introduces the fundamentals of cost estimation methodologies and economic evaluations for mining projects. Topics covered will include; types and levels of cost estimates, cost estimation techniques, the theory of time value of money, the use of cash flow projections for project analysis, financing options for mining projects and the marketing of mineral products. Techniques used in industry for estimating capital and operating costs will be explained and practiced through a series of cost estimation exercises including development of cost estimation spreadsheets and use of industry computer software. Exercises will be carried out in evaluation of actual project cash flows to analyze project economics and compare project financial criteria. The calculation of net smelter returns will be explained along with the content of typical smelter contracts. Topics taught in the course will be integrated into the level 4 mining project (see MINE 4110). Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 3105 course outline | 3.0
MINE 4107 | Mineral Exploration Reviews the mineral exploration industry and discusses common exploration techniques and the interpretation of exploration data. The business of exploration is outlined including the roles of different participants, ethics in exploration, the sources of exploration funding and the regulatory requirements of Canadian stock exchanges and securities commissions. The objectives and strategies employed in mining exploration are described including the design of sampling programs. Common exploration techniques and their applications are discussed including mapping, prospecting, remote sensing, geochemistry, geophysics and diamond drilling. Case studies and an exploration design project form an integral part of the course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 3101 and 50% in MINE 3106 course outline | 4.0
MINE 4108 | Exploration and Geological Field Methods Introduction to prospecting, exploration and geological field techniques in a camp setting in southern British Columbia. The course focuses on developing field skills such as compass use, map reading, prospecting techniques, taking field notes, observations and sketches, sampling techniques (rock, soil, silt), establishing exploration grids, and conducting geochemical and geophysical surveys. Geological field skills include geological mapping and identification of minerals, rocks and alteration around selected mineral deposits. Course includes several half-day exercises and a multi-day exploration mapping project. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 3101 and 50% in MINE 3106 course outline | 3.5
MINE 4109 | Computer Applications for Mine Design Provides an overview of common computer applications used in the exploration and mining industry. Topics covered during the course include: resource estimates, block modeling techniques, 3D ore body modeling and 3D open-pit design. Industry standard mine design software is used throughout the course. Emphasis is placed on the theory and concepts behind mine design software and the utilisation of a specific software platform. The Gemcom Surpac TM computer mine design software is used during the course for hands on practice of mine modeling and design. The program provides mining solutions for: geology, engineering and operations. All applications operate in a 3D environment such that data can be viewed and edited in true three dimensions. Through a series of worked examples and term assignments, students will learn the basics of the program application. Exercises will include manipulating topographical and geological data, solids modeling of an ore body shape, mineral resource estimation using sectional and block modeling techniques, and open pit mine design. Prerequisite(s): MINE 2109 and MINE 3109 course outline | 4.0
MINE 4110 | Mining Project ​Students will complete a team project that involves preparing and presenting a technical report on a mining project. This report will be centered around an actual mineral deposit/property and will integrate student-collected field and laboratory data with additional project information provided to the students. Topics to be studied may include aspects of deposit geology, exploration methods, resource estimates, mine planning and design, mineral processing, site assessment and layout, environmental sustainability, community engagement, project cost estimates and economics. Each team is responsible for the preparation of a succinct, well-written, and technically accurate project report. Teams will also complete an oral presentation and discussion of their study results. Prerequisite(s): MINE 3106 and MINE 3107 course outline | 4.5
Total Credits: | 130.0
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
The curriculum is current, practical, intensive and broad-based. In the first year students receive training in basic science, math and communications as well as geology, mining methods, blasting, surveying and computer applications. In the second year the emphasis is on mining and the engineering and science skills required for the mining industry. The highlights of the second year include: a week of mine tours, a week’s exploration field school and completion of a mining project report.
The program is well supported by industry. This support exists through our advisory committee and through companies that hire our students for summer and graduate job opportunities.
Mine tours and field trips from one afternoon to seven days are an integral part of the program and reinforce knowledge gained in the classroom and laboratory. Most of the costs are covered by the program and endowment funds. Each year in March the department organizes a multi-day geology and mine tour.
Guest lectures, professional associations and attendance at conventions also provide opportunities for the students to interface with the mining industry.
### Keys to success
Most students find the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology program to be demanding and that it requires a lot of hard work. However, the program is also enjoyable and rewarding. We find that students who attend all their classes, work hard, complete assignments on time, and have a good, positive attitude toward the program and industry are the most successful.
Some of the keys to student success are:
- An interest in science and engineering
- Well-developed study habits
- Attendance at all classes
- Work hard from the beginning
- A keen interest and positive attitude
- Participation in classes and industry activities
### Program length
Two years, full-time.
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
### Continue your education
More information about transfer options is available in the Frequently Asked Questions section.
## Graduating & Jobs
### Job opportunities
The mining industry is a diverse industry with a wide range of employment opportunities. Graduates have obtained employment in BC, elsewhere in Canada, the US and internationally. Jobs are located at mine sites, in remote exploration camps, in offices and labs. Jobs include working in the engineering, geology, surveying, blasting, environmental, mineral processing or management departments at mines, with geology crews in exploration, with engineering consulting companies, and at assay labs. Additionally, there are positions in technical sales and support with companies such as mining-related computer software developers, and blasting and equipment manufacturers. Some graduates have started their own consulting companies.
Some more benefits you can look forward to upon graduation:
- Registration as Professional Technologist –
- Diploma graduates will be eligible to apply for registration with Applied Technologist and Technicians of British Columbia as as a trainee upon review of your transcripts, and completion of a certification exam.After completion of a minimum of two years of relevant work experience applicants are eligible to register as an Applied Science Technologist. Full information on updated application procedures are available here .
- Transfer to university – You are fully qualified to enter the work force with your diploma. However, if you wish to pursue further studies toward a university degree. There are also transfer options available to other universities. FAQs
- Employees are in demand – The mining and exploration industries are facing a shortage of well qualified professionals owing to an aging and retiring population. Thus new graduates, such as technologists, will continue to be in demand. More information on employment opportunities in the minerals industry is contained on the Mining Industry Human Resources Council (MIHR) website.
- Job opportunities – Some of the companies that have recently hired our graduates are: · AMEBC · Amarc Resources · Artemis Gold · Ausenco · Canada Fluorspar Inc · Barminco · Canadian Natural Resources (CNRL) · BGC Engineering Ltd · Elk Valley Resources · Cariboo Gold · Equity Exploration · Conuma Resources · HudBay Minerals Inc . · Fluor Corporation · Nevada Gold · Golder & Associates · New Gold · JDS Mining · Newmont · Resolution Copper · Rio Tinto · Scottie Resources · Skeena Gold + Silver · Victoria Gold · SRK Consulting · Wheaton Precious Metals · Taseko Mines · WSP Canada · Teck Anglo
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
You have a great team of committed faculty, staff and industry advisors supporting your learning!
BCIT instructor passion for teaching helps enable students to succeed in their BCIT studies.
Our faculty instructors are highly qualified geologists, engineers and applied scientists who have many years of teaching experience. Many of them are Professional Geologists or Engineers, have worked in industry and continue to maintain close ties with industry. Faculty office locations and phone numbers are available from the BCIT Directory .
### Mining Program Faculty
### Shawna Waberi, MSc, PGeo
Geology Instructor and Academic Program Head Geology, Mineral Deposits, Computer Applications, Field school and tours E: swaberi@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Shawna teaches courses on mineral deposits, software applications, pre-feasibility studies, exploration field methods and leads field trips in British Columbia and the United States. Shawna’s research interests include 3D spatial learning in geology and mine engineering, field-based experiential learning and practical application of mineral deposit models in exploration.
Shawna has 10 years of experience in brownfields exploration, resource delineation and evaluation, in base and precious metals deposits in central and eastern Canada.
Education
- MSc, Applied Geology, Queen’s University
- BSc (Honours), Geological Sciences, University of Saskatchewan
- Instructor Education Diploma, Vancouver Community College
Professional Registration P.Geo., British Columbia
Professional Affiliations Member of the National Association of Geoscience Teachers, Society of Economic Geologists, Geological Society of America, and Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
### Elspeth Barnes, PhD
Instructor Geology, Mineralogy, Exploration and Field schools E: ebarnes6@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Elspeth has work experience as an economic geologist (prospector, mapper and core-logger) in greenfield and brownfield Pb-Zn exploration projects in Canada and the US. She has also developed and delivered many geology and general science courses for the University of British Columbia, University of Alberta, and Yukon College (now Yukon University) including:
- Advanced Mineral Deposits – 4th year course (UBC and UA)
- Field School Studies – 2nd, 3rd and 4th year courses
- Structural Geology – 3rd year course
- Introductory Mineralogy and Petrology – 2nd year course
- Introductory Geology – 1st year course
- Geophysics – 1st year course
- Geochemistry – 1st year course
Education
- PhD, Geological Sciences, University of British Columbia, 2010
- MSc, Geological Studies, University of Alberta, 2002
- BSc (Honours), Geology and Applied Geology, University of Glasgow, 1999
Additional Information Elspeth has attended the University of British Columbia as an exchange student from the University of Glasgow and volunteered for the summer (as a foreign student) with the Geological Survey of Canada on the Nechako Plateau mapping project (best choice ever!). Her M.Sc. at the University of Alberta focused on the potential for gold mineralization in the Rockies and my Ph.D. included developing a method to measure Li isotope fractionation in a suite of Li-rich, rare element-bearing pegmatites on the Yukon/NWT border. The data from that project suggested fractionation of Li6 and Li7 during magmatic fractionation.
Barnes, E. M., Weis, D., Groat, L. A., 2012. Significant Li isotope fractionation in geochemically evolved rare element-bearing pegmatites from the Little Nahanni Pegmatite Group, NWT, Canada. Lithos, vol. 132-133, p. 21-36.
### Reza Tafti, MSc, PhD
Geology Instructor, Student Coordinator and Part–time Studies Coordinator Geology, Mineralogy, Structural Geology E: reza_tafti@bcit.ca
### Russell Hartlaub, PhD, PGeo
Geology Instructor Geology, Mine & Exploration Safety, Field schools and Mine tours E: russell_hartlaub@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Russell is a professional geologist with an expertise in geological mapping and mineral exploration. His research and consulting interests focus on the search for critical minerals. He has worked extensively with the Alberta, Manitoba, and Saskatchewan Geological Surveys, as well as Geoscience BC. He has taught a wide variety of courses that include Introduction to the Minerals Industry, Mineral Deposits, Mineral Resource Estimation and Mineral Exploration. Russell is a member of the EGBC Geoscience Subcommittee and sits on the Geoscience Credentials Assessment Panel.
Education
- PhD, Earth Sciences, University of Alberta, 2004
- MSc, Geology, University of Regina, 1999
- BSc, Geology, Concordia University, 1995
Professional Registration P.Geo., British Columbia P.Geo., Alberta
### William Oching, MBA, PEng
Mining Instructor Underground Mining, Mine Computer Applications and Mine Projects E: woching@bcit.ca
Work Experience
William is a professional Mining Engineer, with extensive Mining Industry Experience in Canada, and a faculty member at British Columbia Institute of Technology (BCIT). William worked for a number of world-class mining operations including Barrick & Teck Joint venture, Falconbridge Limited, Vale Sudbury Operations, Cameco Corporation, and Nyrstar. He held positions with increasing level of responsibilities in project management, and mine operations.
Education
- MBA, Laurentian University, Sudbury, Ontario, 2009
- BEng, Laurentian University, Sudbury, Ontario, 2006
- Water Engineering Diploma, Uganda Polytechnic Kyambogo, 2000
- Environmental and Occupational Health Certificate, Victoria University, British Columbia, 2019
- Train the Trainer Certificate, Adult and Continuing Education and Teaching, Vancouver Community College, 2023
Professional Registration P.Eng., British Columbia P.Eng., Ontario
Professional Affiliations Member of Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM)
### Staff
Anita Lai Program Assistant Tel: 604-432-8465 Email: anita_lai@bcit.ca
### Advisory committee
- Tom Broddy, Mining Consultant
- Bruce Bried*, Consultant
- Jason Courneyea, MineralsEd
- Gord Doerksen, G. Doerksen Consulting
- Lana Eagle, Consultant
- Megan Gent*, JDS Mining
- Rhea Halfnight LeFlufy, Ascot Resources
- Masaki Miyoshi, Teck Resources Ltd.
- Martin Telford*, Wheaton Precious Metals Corporation
* Denotes an Alumnus/Alumna of the BCIT Program.
## Flexible Learning Courses
### Delivery Mode: ONLINE
Your education is our priority and we will continue to deliver the applied instruction, collaborative experience, and industry connections that you expect from BCIT.
Are you interested in geology, mineral exploration and the mining industry? We offer a variety of continuing education courses for entry-level to professional workers.
Each of the links below will offer a brief course description or give you the opportunity to register for a course.
### Regularly offered courses
MINE 1100 – Introduction to the Minerals Industry
ONLINE COURSE – Introduces students to the wide scope of the minerals industry and prepares them for further courses in mining. The course covers the breadth of the industry from mineral exploration through to processing and marketing of mining products. The history of mining is covered from early ages through to modern times. Considerations regarding the preservation of the natural environment and the concept of sustainable development are introduced.
Dates: normally offered once per term (Fall, Winter, Spring/Summer).
MINE 1101 – Physical Geology ONLINE COURSE – Presents an overview of the processes and materials that form and shape the planet Earth. Labs include rock and mineral description, examination of geological maps and structures, and study of geological processes. This course will appeal to aspiring earth science students as well as non-technical mineral industry personnel looking to better understand geologic fundamentals. For students in other programs, this course can be taken as an elective science credit.
Dates: normally offered once per term (Fall and Winter).
MINE 1017 – Mineral Exploration Field Safety
ONLINE COURSE – Based around AMEBC’s Field Safety guidelines, this course provides an overview of the key safety issues encountered in the mineral exploration environment and is designed for both new field workers and as a refresher for seasoned explorationists.
Dates: continuous enrollment.
Check information on registration for part-time and online courses or contact Mining Program Assistant, at 604-432-8683.
For information on course content and registration, please contact Reza Tafti , Student Coordinator.
## Frequently Asked Questions
Thinking of enrolling into our Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma program?
Our faculty and staff have compiled a list of the most frequently asked questions and their answers. If you have further enquirers please contact the program head .
### Entrance into the Program
- What if I do not have the entrance requirements?
- Is Financial Aid available?
- What about student housing?
### Questions about the Program
- Do we have to pay for mine tours and field trips?
- Is the program hard?
- Who will I learn from?
- Can I get credit for courses I have already taken?
- Do you have a co-op program?
- Can I take courses on a part-time basis?
- How many students enter the program each year?
- Who are the students in the program?
- What are the transfer options to other universities?
- Is there a time limit on the completion of the diploma?
- What BCIT programs can I ladder into after completing the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma?
- What does a mining and geological technologist do?
### What if I do not have the entrance requirements?
If you do not have the entrance requirements or would like to upgrade you academics before starting the program, you should consider the Technology Entry program offered by BCIT.
Alternatively, you can pick up the courses you are missing at your local school board, college or via distance education with the Open Learning Division of Thompson Rivers University . You should make sure that any courses you take will be accepted by BCIT for admissions BEFORE taking the course.
Top
### Is Financial Aid available?
Yes, a variety of types of financial aid are available to Mining Technology students, including entrance awards, bursaries, student loans and academic awards.
Top
### What about student housing?
Both on and off-campus student housing is available.
Top
### Do we have to pay for mine tours and field trips?
Most of the cost for mine tours and field trips are covered by the program and by funding from the Cy and Emerald Keyes Foundation and the John Salisbury Memorial Endowment Fund. The Second year field trip may have a commitment fee, depending on the region visited.
Top
### Is the program hard?
Most students find the program to be demanding with 30 hours of class and lab time a week plus substantial out of class time to complete assignments and labs and to prepare for tests and exams.
Top
### Who will I learn from?
You will learn from dedicated instructors with a diversity of industry and academic experience. Key instructors in the Mineral Exploration and Mining program include both geologists and mining engineers.
Top
### Can I get credit for courses I have already taken?
Yes, you can get credit for courses you have already taken toward the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma. In order to obtain transfer credit, the courses you have taken must be very similar in content and level of difficulty to the related course in the Mining Program, and it must be an equal or greater number of credits. Transfer credit can only be applied for once you are accepted into the program and usually at the start of each term. You can obtain transfer credit for a maximum of 50% of the courses in the program.
Top
### Do you have a co-op program?
At the present we do not have a co-op program. The Mining department and the BCIT Student Association assist students with finding well-paid summer positions in the exploration or mining industry. Students who are serious about obtaining summer employment in industry and put effort and integrity into finding a job should have no problem finding a suitable summer position through this program.
Top
### Can I take courses on a part-time basis?
The diploma program is a full-time day program with a two-year completion timeline. It is possible for students pursue a modified course load, extending the time to complete the diploma.
Top
### How many students enter the program each year?
The mining program will accept up to 23 students into the program each September.
Top
### Who are the students in the program?
Students in the Mining Program come with a range of backgrounds and experience. Approximately 40-50% recent high school graduates (<2 years after graduation), ~25% have some post-secondary education up to degrees, and up to 25% have worked at various jobs for one to ten years before entering the program.
Top
### What are the transfer options to other universities
The Mining and Mineral Exploration program maintains transfer agreements with the Norman B. Keevil Institute of Mining Engineering at the University of British Columbia and with the Mining Engineering program at Montana Technological University in Butte. In addition, students can also transfer into the Environmental Science program at Royal Roads University, providing another pathway for continued study in environmental and applied science fields.
A transfer agreement with Queen’s University is in process, allowing appropriately qualified graduates of BCIT’s Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma to apply into the Engineering Bridge – Mining Engineering pathway, effective fall 2026.
Transfer to UBC requires a six‑month bridge program at Camosun College before entering 3rd year Engineering. Transfer to Montana Tech is direct into 3rd year, and the university offers several scholarships for Canadian students that help keep overall costs comparable to studying in Canada. Transfer to Royal Roads University is available through a block transfer into Environmental Science, with the additional requirement of completing two university‑level biology courses.
Graduates of the program also enter geology and engineering programs at universities in BC and elsewhere in Canada. The number of BCIT courses that are eligible for transfer varies and normally ranges from one to one and a half years of the program. Thus an additional 3 years is typically required to complete a degree. The department will assist students who wish to transfer to other programs or universities.
Top
### Is there a time limit on the completion of the diploma?
Currently the time limit for completion of the diploma program is 7 years.
Top
### What BCIT programs can I ladder into after completing the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma?
Graduates can ladder into the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) – Bachelor of Technology , which builds on your technical background with advanced skills in spatial data management and geospatial analysis.
You may also choose the GIS Advanced Diploma , a shorter, specialized option that provides intensive training in GIS applications and technologies.
Please note that the Bachelor of Engineering in Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering is no longer available as a continuation option, as the program has been suspended effective Fall 2026.
Top
### What does a mining and geological technologist do?
A mining technologist supports mineral exploration and mining operations by collecting, analyzing, and interpreting geological and geophysical data. They work with geologists and engineers to assist with field surveys, exploratory drilling, sampling, and mine development activities. Mining technologists prepare geological maps and reports, operate and maintain specialized equipment, and conduct laboratory testing of rock and mineral samples. They may also help monitor mine safety, environmental impacts, and waste management practices. Work is split between outdoor field or mine sites and indoor laboratory or office settings. Mining technologists are employed by mining companies, consulting firms, engineering companies, and government agencies and play a key role in safe and responsible resource development.
For detailed information about the role, job duties, and employment outlook for mining and geological technologists in Canada, explore these resources:
- Government of Canada – Job Bank
- WorkBC- Career Profile
Top
## Field School
The mineral exploration field school is an eight day field course that is part of the two-year Technology diploma and four year degree programs. It introduces students to a wide range of geological and mineral exploration field techniques. These techniques include
- Basic field methods: compass use, map orientation, field notes, pace and compass, working with varied scales and keeping located in the field.
- Geological field methods: strike and dip, sample collection, field description of rocks, minerals and formations, map making, field sketches, and preparing field cross-sections.
- Exploration methods: prospecting, grids and grid mapping, tracing zones of mineralization, trenching, soil sampling, geophysics, exploration sampling, identification of mineralization, report preparation.
The school takes place in the spring in and around Oliver in the Okanagan Valley, British Columbia. The weather is typically dry with daytime temperatures ranging from the low teens to low thirties (Celsius).
The field school course involves visiting various sites for half-day exercises, followed by a 3-day mapping project in the historic Fairview Mining camp.
Please contact our Academic Program Head at swaberi@bcit.ca if you have any further questions regarding the camp.
## Contact Us
Anita Lai Program Assistant Tel: 604-432-8465 Email: anita_lai@bcit.ca
Shawna Waberi Academic Program Head Tel: 604-454-2217 Email: swaberi@bcit.ca
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
