URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/mining-and-mineral-resource-engineering-bachelor-of-engineering-full-time-8610beng/
Title: Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering Full-time School of Construction and the Environment
## Overview
Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi .
Delivery: in person. See details .
### (Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake.)
The Bachelor of Engineering in Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering program is designed to allow well qualified students who successfully complete the first year of the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma program to apply to complete an engineering degree through three additional years of full-time study.
The vision of the program is to provide students with a flexible educational path for successful careers in the mineral resource industry both in Canada and worldwide. As such the degree will have a strong practical focus built upon a broad foundation of engineering theory, analysis and design. Throughout this program, students will be challenged to develop their critical thinking skills and exercise their creative abilities.
The mineral resource industry is a cornerstone of many communities throughout BC and Canada and it is a major contributor to our economy. Canada is recognized as a world leader in mineral exploration and mining, and our expertise is exported around the world to help discover, develop, and operate mines.
As one of the largest users of high-technology equipment and applications, the mining industry requires professionals who have the skills and knowledge necessary to keep up with these advances. Virtually all technical jobs within the fields of mining and mineral exploration require a post-secondary education. If you are interested in a challenging and varied work environment, in the office, lab or field, and like solving engineering problems, this program will appeal to you. Take the Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering program, the only program of its kind in Western Canada.
### Spend a day with us
Want to learn more about our program before you apply? Come spend a day with us. You’ll meet students and instructors, and get a hands-on feel for what the program is about.
Find out more
## Entrance Requirements
Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi.
### Application processing
Applications are accepted during the following periods:
Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intake may fill before the deadline.
Applicants should expect to receive a decision on their application in or after June.
This program has a common first year with the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma program. All applicants must complete the first year of the diploma, or equivalent, before continuing into the Bachelor of Engineering degree program. Entrance requirements for the first year are listed on the program entry page of the technology diploma program.
Students in the first year of the Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma program do not apply through the Admissions department. These students are asked to select and confirm their preferred path to the Program Head in the second term of first year and can elect to complete the diploma or be considered for the Engineering degree.
### Entrance requirements
Entry to the degree is competitive based on your Grade Point Average (GPA) scores. Meeting the minimum entrance requirements does not guarantee acceptance into this program. Students chosen for the degree path will be moved into the degree program.
- Post-secondary: one of the following: Completion of all Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology first-year diploma courses, with a minimum year-end average GPA of 70% or An equivalent level of formal education at the post-secondary level, with a minimum year-end average GPA of 70%
- Complete the following form for submission with your online application: Course-by-Course Self-Assessment [PDF]
Note: If you have completed the two-year Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology Diploma program (or earlier versions of the diploma) or equivalent, you may be eligible to apply as a direct entry student into levels 4 or 5.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program currently meets the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
Students are responsible for meeting all Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) PGWP eligibility requirements . Final PGWP approval is at the discretion of IRCC.
( CIPC : 14.2101)
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### Technology entry
The Technology Entry (TE) program is a full-time, day school program which provides academic upgrading to students wishing to enroll in Computing, Engineering, Electronic, and Health Sciences programs at BCIT.
The TE program provides courses in chemistry, communication, mathematics, and physics that meet program prerequisites for selected programs at BCIT. The TE program also includes an introductory course in computer applications and a learning skills course. The program is supportive to those who require English-language training.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through either re-admission or direct entry . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
Please contact the Student Coordinator or Program Head to determine if you qualify for advanced placement in this program.
### Re-admission
You can apply for re-admission if you:
- were previously admitted to this program and completed part of it at BCIT and
- want to re-enter the program at an advanced level.
Submit the Technology Degree Re-admission Form [PDF] with your application.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Direct entry
Complete applications must include transcripts and course outlines/syllabi, and must be submitted by:
- October 31st* for level 4 (January start)
- April 15th* for level 5 (September start)
### Option 1: Graduates of the BCIT Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology Diploma
Submit proof of the following with your online application:
- Diploma in Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology with a minimum 70% GPA
- MATH 3503 - Calculus 2 for Mining (or equivalent)
- Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF]
- Official transcripts
For direct entry to level 5 :
- The following course is also required for entry: MATH 4504 - Differential Equations (or equivalent)
- The following degree make-up courses must be completed during level 5 or 6 of the degree program: ENGR 3800 - Introduction to Professional Engineering MINE 4200 - Drilling, Explosives and Fragmentation
Contact the Program Head for information on how to complete these courses.
Previous graduates from BCIT in other disciplines may be considered. Please contact the Mining Department directly.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Option 2: Post-secondary education outside of BCIT
Submit proof of the following with your online application:
- English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent
- Post-secondary education: Diploma, bachelor's degree, or 30.0 credits of post-secondary education in engineering or science from a recognized institution , with a minimum of 70% GPA
- Resume outlining previous education and work experience
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
### Direct Entry FAQ
When should I apply? It is recommended that you apply when you have met all of the entrance requirements. If you are currently registered in a course(s), please indicate this on the self-assessment form.
Am I eligible for admission if my education is from a Canadian College outside of BC? Yes, education from all recognized Canadian post-secondary institutions will be considered.
Am I eligible for admission if my education is from outside of North America? Yes, applicants with foreign credentials will be considered for direct entry to level 3. Applicants who completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Australia, or New Zealand will require a basic evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES) if the credential was completed. If no credential was awarded, a comprehensive evaluation is required. Comprehensive reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations. Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered.
When will I get my timetable? Print your timetable one day prior to class start by logging into my.bcit.ca and going to Student Self-Service. You must be registered in your courses in order to access this feature.
When can I buy my books? It is recommended that you wait until the first week of classes before buying textbooks. Your instructors will tell you which books to buy.
How much credit can I apply for? The maximum transfer credit granted will be 50% of the total credit hours required to earn the certification. Therefore, students must complete at least 50% of the course work through BCIT. If you have been accepted with completion of a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor’s degree, you have already reached 50% and are not entitled to further transfer credit.
To register for a Part-time Studies course, visit Register for Part-time Courses or contact Student Information and Enrolment Services .
Still have questions? Review the Admissions FAQ or contact Program Advising .
## Costs & Supplies
Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi.
The information below will help you determine the cost of taking the program and assist you in developing a budget for your study.
### Mining field courses and trips
In addition to tuition fees, books, supplies and equipment, students will incur expenses for field trips and field courses.
The Mineral Exploration and Mining department runs a number of field trips and courses to various mining and geological sites to aid and supplement classroom learning. While subsidized, these trips and courses require some financial contribution from the students. The values below do not include food, which is typically the student’s responsibility on field trips. Please note that trips are optional, but courses are not. Values are subject to change at the department’s discretion.
1st Year: No fee
2nd Year: $250 course fee (MINE 4108), and a separate $250 trip fee
3rd Year: $500 course fee (MINE 6020)
4th Year: Student led and supported field trip (cost unknown, trip dependent)
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
Year 1 - $1700, Year 2 - $1200, Year 3 - $1200, Year 4 - $1000
(general estimated cost, subject to change)
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi.
### Class hours
8:30 am to 5:30 pm, Monday through Friday.
### Program matrix
Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHEM 1105 | Chemistry 1 for Mining CHEM 1105 covers topics of general chemistry including atomic structure, chemical formulas, stoichiometry, aqueous reactions and concentrations of solutions, acids and bases, periodic properties of the elements and basic concepts of chemical bonding. Laboratory exercises consist of qualitative and quantitative analysis and acid-base chemistry. The emphasis is on applications of chemical principles, chemical calculations and analysis, and the development of good laboratory skills. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
COMM 1135 | Technical Communication 1 Students learn how to write letters, memos, and routine email messages. They learn to write clear and concise sentences and paragraphs and to make documents easily accessible through headings, lists and white space. They learn how to avoid some common grammatical errors in their writing. They also learn to give an oral report based on library and online research on a new development in their technology. In addition, they learn how to prepare a resume and job application letter and fill out a job application form. Students also learn how to collaborate as part of a team to accomplish work related communication tasks. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
COMP 1620 | Computer Essentials This course starts with a basic overview of personal computer hardware, how a PC works and how to get the most functionality out of a Windows based computer. Students will focus on the Windows operating system and become accomplished at using its graphical user interface (GUI) for desktop navigation and managing files. Discussions will also include the technical aspects of using Windows for networking and troubleshooting. Topics include: An introduction to PC hardware, functions of an operating system (OS), file and disk management, backing up and protecting data, troubleshooting, networking, security, virus protection and firewalls. Students will also gain experience in utilizing Excel to develop well formatted spreadsheets. Topics will include user interface elements, using formulae and built-in functions, editing and formatting, custom numeric and data formatting, working with tables and charts, sorting and filtering, pivot tables, slicers, pivot charts, and graphic objects. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 1501 | Technical Mathematics for Mining This course covers; equations and Relations including polynomial, conic, power, exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric, and systems. Applications are stressed including graphical linear programming, exponential/logarithmic transformations, common and natural logarithms and logarithmic/semi-logarithmic graphs, radian measure and its applications. Solid geometry, formula creation, unit analysis, and math/computer models are important skills. Also taught are vectors and solution of triangles, with applications in forces, motions and navigation. The goal of this course is to develop skills at defining, solving and presenting mining and exploration industry related problems using the basic mathematical skills taught in this course. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
MINE 1100 | Introduction to the Minerals Industry Introduces students to the wide scope of the mining industry and prepares them for further courses in mining. The course covers the breadth of the industry from mineral exploration through to processing and marketing of mining products. The importance of environmental considerations and sustainable development are introduced. Students will learn the terminology used in the industry in preparation for further courses taught during the program. Except for online courses, a visit to an active mining operation will form part of the course curriculum. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MINE 1101 | Physical Geology Presents an overview of the processes and materials that form and shape the planet Earth. The theory of plate tectonics is introduced and used as the basis of understanding the fundamental geological processes that operate both on, and beneath the Earth's surface. The formation and characteristics of minerals and development of the geological time scale, and deformation in the Earth's crust are reviewed as are an introduction to the geology of mineral and energy deposits and the geology of North America. Laboratory work includes identification of minerals, examination of geological maps and structures, and study of geological processes. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MINE 1107 | Student Success Prepares students for success in the Mining and Mineral Exploration Program by outlining success strategies in learning, time-management, and exam preparation. It will also outline the responsibilities that students have to their class and the program. These responsibilities will be structured around the expectations of industry in a working environment and will include aspects such as attendance, participation, preparedness, punctuality, team work, respect, and quality of work. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 0.5
PHYS 1147 | Physics for Mining Technology 1 Covers data analysis, linear and rotational kinematics and dynamics, equilibrium, work, energy and power, stress and strain. The laboratory deals with the principles of measurement and the experimental method of acquiring knowledge. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 5.0
SURV 1145 | Surveying for Mining 1 Covers fundamental concepts and principles of surveying; datums, principle of differential leveling, bench mark and detail leveling, peg-test, grades, use of levels, theodolites and steel chains; linear measurements; angle measurements and reductions, directions, bearings, coordinate systems; gradients and cut and fill; field note keeping and reductions; care, maintenance and adjustment of equipment. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Level 2 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHEM 2205 | Chemistry 2 for Mining Continues from CHEM 1105 and covers topics of inorganic chemistry including solubility equilibria, buffer solutions, oxidation and reduction reactions, electrochemistry, physical and chemical properties of gases, liquids and solids, phase diagrams and intermolecular forces. Electrochemistry includes electrochemical cells, applications of electrolysis, electrometallurgy, and corrosion. Lab work covers a variety of topics including electrochemical cells, ion exchange, spectrophotometric analysis, water hardness and alkalinity indices. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CHEM 1105 course outline | 5.0
MATH 2502 | Calculus 1 for Mining This course covers the following topics: functions and graphs; limits and continuity, the Intermediate Value Theorem; differentiation rules for algebraic, trigonometric, logarithmic and exponential functions and inverse trigonometric functions; applications of differentiation; Newton’s method; analytic geometry; anti-differentiation. Applications to the mining industry will be utilized. Problem-solving skills and solution presentation will be emphasized. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1501 course outline | 5.0
MINE 2101 | Mineralogy and Petrology Examines the formation, characteristics and classification of minerals and rocks. The crystallographic, chemical and physical properties of minerals, and the important rock-forming and economic mineral groups are discussed. Igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks and their relationship to mineral deposits are reviewed. The processes of rock formation are illustrated through a review of the geological evolution of British Columbia and other parts of North America. Laboratory exercises focus on the field identification of minerals and rocks and the interpretation of geological maps. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 1101 course outline | 4.0
MINE 2105 | Surface Mining and Blasting This course examines in detail aspects of design, planning, operation and equipment maintenance for surface mines. Rock fragmentation theory, drilling and blasting practices as applied to the surface mines will be discussed. Topics include: mining methods, mine planning and pit optimization, production scheduling, grade control and dilution, surface mining equipment, maintenance, road design, drilling and blasting design. Types of mining operations discussed include hard rock open pits, open cast coal mines and quarrying operations for industrial minerals. The concepts of cut-off grade and stripping ratio are discussed in details and practiced. Lerchs and Grossmann pit optimization algorithm is discussed and practiced. Surface mining equipment are introduced and compared. Production of mining equipment fleet will be discussed and related calculations are practiced. An introduction to equipment maintenance will be discussed. Basic concepts of road design such as layouts, different curves, stopping distance and regulations are discussed. Information will be presented on various types of commercial explosives and blasting agents and their safe handling. Methods of initiation and timing of blasts will be discussed along with means to monitor and reduce blast vibration and damage. A basic blasting design will be addressed. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 1100 course outline | 4.0
MINE 2107 | Exploration and Mine Safety Provides an overview of key safety issues encountered in mineral exploration and mining work environments as well as the completion of WHMIS on-line course and Worksafe BC Occupational First Aid Level 1. Topics that will be discussed include the development of safe working habits, personal safety gear, work in remote camp settings, safe travel in the field, animal awareness, safe operation around aircraft, watercraft and heavy equipment, mine rescue, and hazards associated with mine gasses and fires. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.5
MINE 2109 | CAD for Mining The course presents an introduction to the functions and use of AutoCAD and AutoCAD 3D Civil for solving different mining problems. Mining design software for engineering, surveying, and reclamation will be introduced. AutoCAD serves as a graphic engine and drawing editor. Mine design software that can be considered as an extension of AutoCAD will be used to add commands and enhancements for earthmoving and engineering. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMP 1620 course outline | 3.0
PHYS 2147 | Physics for Mining Technology 2 Covers behaviours of fluids, thermal properties of matter, waves, electricity, magnetism, electromagnetic induction, DC and AC circuits. The lab component is comprised of experiments to complement the lectures. Prerequisite(s): 50% in PHYS 1147 course outline | 5.0
SURV 2145 | Surveying for Mining 2 Covers computations and adjustments of integrated traverses; triangulation; trigonometric leveling; horizontal curves; road and building layouts, drill pattern layouts; cut and fill, area and volume calculations; introduction to total stations; introduction to GPS theory and applications. Prerequisite(s): SURV 1145 course outline | 3.0
Level 3 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHSC 3314 | Mineral Processing 1 This is the first course of a two course series on the theory and practice of mineral processing. Minerals and ores are defined along with their formation and dispersion in earth's crust. Distinction is made between mineral processing and extractive metallurgy; methods by which metals are extracted from minerals are mentioned. Mass balancing methods, drawing and interpretation of mineral process flowsheets explained. Sampling techniques, particle size measurement methods, size distribution analysis, comminution theory, size reduction by crushing and grinding, industrial screening and factors affecting screen performance are introduced. Students will carry out laboratory work and produce reports in the above areas. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.5
CIVL 2225 | Statics and Strength of Materials Presents a basic introduction to the relationship between applied loads and the resulting support reactions and internal forces developed in statically determinate members and structures. The course is delivered through lectures and problem solving sessions. Topics include classification of force systems, equilibrium equations, freebody diagrams, support conditions and reactions, truss analysis, load, shear force and bending moment diagrams for beams, and friction. This course lays the foundation for subsequent civil engineering courses taught to mining students. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1501 course outline | 3.0
MATH 3503 | Calculus 2 for Mining This course covers the topics of: definite and indefinite integrals; integration techniques; applications of integration; Riemann sums and integrals; the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; improper integrals; first-order differential equations; Taylor Series. Applications to the mining industry will be utilized. Problem-solving skills and solution presentation will be emphasized. Prerequisite(s): MATH 2502 course outline | 3.0
MINE 3101 | Structural Geology Reviews the formation, characteristics and geometry of crustal deformation structures. The concepts of stress and strain and the mechanisms of deformation provide the background for a descriptive analysis of common deformation structures including joints, veins, faults, folds, planar and linear deformation fabrics and shear zones. The relationships between geological structures, mineral deposits and mining are examined throughout the course, as are the links between deformation and plate tectonics. Laboratory exercises focus on the visualization and graphical solution to three-dimensional structural problems and structural geology map problems. Some labs will involve analysis of structures in the field. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 2101 and MATH 1501 course outline | 4.5
MINE 3105 | Underground Mining Examines in detail the design, planning and operation of underground mines. Mining methods for different materials will be discussed with the emphasis on hard rock mining. The criteria for correct selection of underground mining methods will be presented in the context of orebody characteristics, required productivity and safety issues. Topics will include: general mine design, ground support requirements and techniques, sizes and types of underground openings, production planning, development and production cycles, mining equipment, mine ventilation and mine infrastructure. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 1100 course outline | 4.0
MINE 3106 | Mineral Deposits Provides an overview of the processes of formation and principle characteristics of major mineral deposits. Mineral deposit formation is discussed by considering the source, transportation and deposition of metals and minerals and the textures, forms and mineral alteration of common mineral deposits. This is followed by a survey of major mineral deposit types including precious and base metals, diamonds, coal and industrial minerals. Laboratory exercises will focus on the study of rock sample suites from mineral deposits in British Columbia and elsewhere in North America. Some labs will involve analysis of structures in the field. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 2101 course outline | 4.5
MINE 3107 | Introduction to Soil and Rock Mechanics This course introduces the fundamentals of soil and rock mechanics, and the objectives and techniques of geotechnical data collection used for mining construction projects and operations. Concepts of stability of surface soil and rock slopes and underground rock excavations are presented in the context of in situ rock mass stress and rock mass structure. Support systems commonly utilized in underground and surface excavations are discussed with respect to their applications and safety requirements. Exercises will focus on geotechnical field mapping, graphical data presentation, core logging, soil classification methods, and rock strength testing. Soil and rock engineering properties will be introduced by laboratory tests during the lecture hours. Laboratory tests will include; soil classification methods, standard soil compaction and shear tests, uniaxial compressive (UCS) testing of rock cores and point load testing of rock specimens. A day-long mine site field trip for rock mapping and testing exercises will be conducted in the second part of the term. Prerequisite(s): MATH 1501 and MINE 2105 course outline | 5.0
MINE 3109 | Computer Applications for Exploration This course introduces students to the fundamentals of exploration databases and spatial data management. GIS technology will be applied to the mapping, display, and analysis of mineral exploration data. Topics covered include fundamental concepts, definitions, organization of databases and GIS; data integration and conversion; spatial and non-spatial query, analysis, display and reporting. Quality assurance and quality control of exploration databases will be discussed. Labs will develop skills in the use of GIS and database software for managing and analyzing mineral exploration data. Prerequisite(s): COMP 1620 course outline | 3.0
Level 4 (15 weeks) | Credits
CHSC 4414 | Mineral Processing 2 Second course of a two course series on mineral processing. The focus of the course is on concentration/enrichment processes. Classification of minerals is discussed. Gravity concentration methods, dense media separation and flotation theory and practice along with dewatering processes explained. Prerequisite(s): 50% in CHSC 3314 course outline | 3.5
COMM 2451 | Technical Communications 2 In a workplace that varies from offices to tents to mountains to cities, graduates need to be able to present technical and economic facts regarding mining projects accurately and clearly, and work effectively with other professionals and teams. To ensure that students are acquiring these communication skills in a technical context that is relevant to mining and mineral exploration, this communication course is closely coordinated with the students’ major mining course. To develop their teamwork and interpersonal skills, students complete team profiling exercises, practice effective meeting strategies, participate in case-study simulations, and acquire the planning and editing skills for writing a composite team report. Students will also prepare a professional resume, an application letter, and a sample answer appropriate for a professional job interview. Prerequisite(s): COMM 1135 course outline | 3.0
ENGR 3800 | Introduction to Professional Engineering This course explores the practice of engineering and the role of engineers in society. Topics include professional associations, ethics, equity, design and development, standards, and intellectual property. Prerequisite(s): (50% in COMM 1143 and 50% in COMM 1243) or 50% in COMM 2269 or 50% in COMM 2451 course outline | 3.0
MATH 3504 | Statistics Descriptive statistics, including measures of central tendency and dispersion, and graphical presentation of data using Excel. Concepts of probability, probability distributions (including binomial, normal, Poisson, log-normal and chi-square distributions). Inferential statistics, including sampling, estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, correlation and regression, and an introduction to statistical process control. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MATH 1501 course outline | 4.0
MATH 4504 | Differential Equations The course covers analytical methods for solving ordinary differential equations of first, second and higher orders as well as systems of differential equations. Eigenvalue methods are employed to solve systems of homogeneous differential equations and extended to the inhomogeneous case. Prerequisite(s): MATH 3503 course outline | 3.0
MINE 4020 | Environmental Applications This course provides an overview of environmental issues and practices that relate the mining industry. Topics include an historical overview of mining and the environment, an introduction to the principles and application of sustainability and the social license to operate, a review of the origin and control of acid rock drainage and a survey of environmental applications throughout the mining life cycle including baseline studies, the environmental assessment processes, environmental applications at operating mines, reclamation and closure. Prerequisite(s): MINE 1100 course outline | 3.0
MINE 4107 | Mineral Exploration Reviews the mineral exploration industry and discusses common exploration techniques and the interpretation of exploration data. The business of exploration is outlined including the roles of different participants, ethics in exploration, the sources of exploration funding and the regulatory requirements of Canadian stock exchanges and securities commissions. The objectives and strategies employed in mining exploration are described including the design of sampling programs. Common exploration techniques and their applications are discussed including mapping, prospecting, remote sensing, geochemistry, geophysics and diamond drilling. Case studies and an exploration design project form an integral part of the course. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 3101 and 50% in MINE 3106 course outline | 4.0
MINE 4108 | Exploration and Geological Field Methods Introduction to prospecting, exploration and geological field techniques in a camp setting in southern British Columbia. The course focuses on developing field skills such as compass use, map reading, prospecting techniques, taking field notes, observations and sketches, sampling techniques (rock, soil, silt), establishing exploration grids, and conducting geochemical and geophysical surveys. Geological field skills include geological mapping and identification of minerals, rocks and alteration around selected mineral deposits. Course includes several half-day exercises and a multi-day exploration mapping project. Prerequisite(s): 50% in MINE 3101 and 50% in MINE 3106 course outline | 3.5
MINE 4200 | Drilling, Explosives and Fragmentation This course expands on the principles and theories of drilling and blasting in both surface and underground mining situations introduced in previous courses (i.e., MINE 2105, MINE 3105). Topics include: the theory of detonation and chemistry of explosives, performance and factors in drilling, penetration and rotation rates, selection of drilling methods, drilling automation, the properties and selection of commercial explosives, initiation and delay systems, basic blast design principles and practices, and blast fragmentation analysis. Current trends in drilling and blasting practices are considered as well as blasting damage analysis and controlled blasting and blast vibration monitoring methods. The economics of drill/blast practice and their interface with transport and crushing systems are also addressed. Case studies in blast design will be examined during the course. This course has a laboratory component where students will gain exposure to an industry standard mining software. The following topics will be covered: • Contouring and surface modeling • Blasting database • Blasting design The students will: • Create a DTM surface • Calculate the volume of solids and generate volume reports • Work with a blasting database • Create a production blast design for an open pit mine • Create a controlled blast design for an open pit ramp • Generate different blasting reports Prerequisite(s): MINE 2105 and MINE 3503 course outline | 3.0
Level 5 (15 weeks) | Credits
ECON 2200 | Macroeconomics Presents a challenging overview of the workings of an economy. Stresses measurement and determination of national economic activity, the role of monetary and fiscal policy, and the understanding of inflation, unemployment and growth in an international environment. Prepares students to weigh political and economic issues as they relate to their business ventures. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
LIBS 7001 | Critical Reading and Writing This is a course in advanced composition and rhetoric, in which students will develop skills in complex critical analysis and interpretation by analyzing and evaluating materials from a variety of discourses or genres, including visual, online, and print; developing and writing essays, including critiques and research papers; applying and discussing principles of rhetoric and critical theory; examining and using methods of interpretation and analysis from the humanities and social sciences; evaluating the credibility of primary and secondary sources, including as it applies to media literacy, and for the purposes of academic research; situating discourses within their historical context and relevant to rhetorical theories of different periods (for example, Aristotle in the ancient world and Bakhtin in the twentieth century). The course format will include lecture, discussion, and both individual and group activities. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177 or equivalent, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
MATH 5504 | Applied Linear Algebra and Numerical Methods This course covers the basics of vectors including vector algebra, the dot product, the cross product and applications. It also covers systems of linear equations, their solution by methods such as Gaussian elimination and matrix inversion, and applications. Matrix algebra, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Selected numerical methods are covered including root-finding, numerical linear algebra methods and numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations. Course topics will be approached throughout with an emphasis on modeling of engineering systems in mechanical, heat transfer and fluid mechanics fields, similarity of matrices and applications to mining will be emphasized. Software to perform matrix calculations will be demonstrated. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MECH 5110 | Thermal and Fluid Science This course will provide students an understanding of energy systems and fluid flows in general and the basic principles of thermal and fluid systems, processes and cycles and fluid mechanics equations (continuity, momentum, energy). Topics covered include: the ideal gas law and 1st and 2nd laws of thermodynamics, fluid flow and the conversion of energy, fluid properties; energy losses; Reynolds number; Moody diagram; simple pipe networks, pumps, mixtures of air and water vapor and fluid statics. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
MINE 5000 | Surface Mine Design This is an advanced course built on the learning acquired during the course MINE 2105 - Surface Mining and Blasting. Students will further develop their knowledge and skills in surface mine designs and production planning. Topics covered during the course include: an in-depth analysis of the cutoff grade concept for both metallic and coal mines, review of surface mining methods and mining operations, extraction of the rock minerals by methods other than drilling and blasting (rocks of medium and low strength). The course includes the design of surface mine dewatering systems. The fundamentals of open pit slope design incorporating geological, geotechnical and hydrogeological models will be covered. Production capacities of mining equipment including machine availability and utilization will be examined with the emphasis on bucket wheel excavators and draglines. The use of range diagrams and related calculations will be practiced. Prerequisite(s): MINE 4200 course outline | 5.0
MINE 5005 | Mineral Resource Estimation Mine 5005 examines different methods for data analysis and computer modeling of mineral deposits for resource estimation. Topics will include interpretation of drill results, geologic controls and continuities, geostatistics, outliers, and interpolation methods. . The primary parameters controlling the calculating and classifying of mineral resources are reviewed, including cut-off grade analysis, deposit type and drill hole spacing. Lab assignments and design work will focus on data compilation, integration, and analysis, geological and ore body modelling, and mineral resource estimating methodologies. Prerequisite(s): MATH 3504 and MINE 3109 and MINE 4107 course outline | 5.0
MINE 5100 | Advanced Petrology Petrology of igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rocks with emphasis on: field relations, macroscopic textures, mineralogy, and classification. Lectures will focus on the processes responsible for their formation in terms of composition, heat, pressure and fluid effects, and relations to various tectonic settings. Sedimentary rocks will be discussed with respect to modern and ancient sedimentary environments and facies, paleogeography, and stratigraphic correlation. Prerequisite(s): MINE 2101 course outline | 3.0
Level 6 (15 weeks) | Credits
BUSA 7250 | Management Skills and Applications The course provides an overview of the basic skills of a manager and applies these skills through a series of projects and case studies. It examines the evolution of management and the organizational culture and environment. It also teaches the decision-making skills and the skills involved in planning, organizing, leading and controlling, including planning and facilitating change, teamwork, applying motivational techniques and effective communication. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MINE 6000 | Underground Mine Design and Ventilation This course provides an opportunity for students to apply knowledge acquired in earlier courses to the design of an underground mine. Initial design information will be provided to students and during the course they will complete the selection, design, and development of the most suitable underground mining methods and various development and production excavations based upon the physical and the geological properties of mineral deposits provided. The open-ended designs will include; reserve estimates, development and production plans, engineering drawings for development and extraction, underground access and haulage systems and ventilation requirements for the mine. As the correct design of the mine ventilation system is an important consideration in underground mining, this course includes several modules and laboratory sessions where students will learn applications, analyses and design of subsurface ventilation systems. Topics include: thermodynamic properties of air, hydraulics of air flow through mine openings and ducts, ventilation survey methods and modeling of air flow using ventilation network analysis. The subject of mine air conditioning is covered including; mine heat and humidity related problems, methods of mine air heating and cooling, dangers of gases and dusts and governing regulations and environmental considerations Hands-on laboratory experiments will include airflow measurement, instrument calibration, fan characteristics and application of computer ventilation network systems. Prerequisite(s): MECH 5110 and MINE 3105 and MINE 4200 course outline | 6.0
MINE 6005 | Advanced Rock Mechanics This is an advanced course building on the learning acquired during the course MINE 3107 Introduction to Soil and Rock Mechanics including: fundamentals of solid mechanics, friction along rough surfaces, degradation and failure under compressive loads, and the influence of groundwater on rock mass behaviour. The effects of fractures and joints, and the presence of cracks on a large scale rock behavior for mine design and construction will be assessed. Further topics include geotechnical engineering applications in mining practice such as: compaction and stabilization of underground backfill, design of underground excavations and support, analysis of stress and rock mass deformations around excavations using analytical and numerical methods, and critical evaluation of field, in situ, and laboratory data collection, analysis, and interpretation for slope and excavation design. Slope stability analysis related to surface mining design will be discussed in detail for different types of slope rock failures. The use of various rock mass classification systems for site characterization and excavation design will be explained along with stress distribution, settlement analysis, and failure theories of rocks. Advanced topics on strength of rocks, data uncertainty, and risk management in geotechnical engineering will be presented along with case studies. Laboratory tests performed will focus on rock strength. Prerequisite(s): MINE 3107 course outline | 3.0
MINE 6010 | Computer Aided Mine Design The course introduce students to the more complex system design tasks, which span disciplines and involve many areas of engineering science and design. This course expands and diversifies on the knowledge acquired during MINE 5000 - Surface Mine Design. Through a series of workshops using selected packages of mining software in current usage, the students will learn and implement different techniques regarding the design, optimization, planning, scheduling, simulation and project management of surface mines. Exercises (and assignments) will include manipulating topographical and geological data, developing a geological database, solids modeling of an ore body shape, mineral resource estimation using sectional and block modeling techniques, open pit design and optimization. Prerequisite(s): MINE 5000 and MINE 5005 and MINE 2109 course outline | 4.0
MINE 6015 | Cost Estimating for Mining Projects This course covers the subject of cost estimation methodologies and procedures as they apply to design, development and operation of mining projects. Topics covered will include; types and levels of cost estimates, cost estimation techniques, the development of detailed capital cost estimates using the WBS, the scheduling of construction activities and the allocation of resources to construction projects. Mine operating costs estimates will be developed from first principles. Common errors in cost estimating will be discussed and case studies made of actual mining project costs estimates. The functions of the project manager and the procurement and expediting departments on major construction projects will be covered including the planning, scheduling and execution functions of the project management group. Risks associated with cost estimates and their ramifications on project economics will be discussed Techniques used in the industry for estimating capital and operating costs will be practiced through a series of cost estimation exercises including development of cost estimation spreadsheets and use of industry computer software for cost estimation. The use of MS Projecttm for construction scheduling will be introduced. Prerequisite(s): MINE 3105 and MINE 5000 course outline | 3.0
MINE 6020 | Mining Field Methods This is a practical course that involves field studies and application of mining field methods. Emphasis is placed on accurate data collection, analysis, and interpretation. Reports will be produced by students on the work undertaken on the various technical assignments. Aspects of mining engineering study may include but are not limited to: use of various surveying equipment, underground ventilation surveys, review and/or design of rock support systems for different mining applications, stability assessments, and identification of safety issues. This course will include field trips. Prerequisite(s): MINE 3107 course outline | 3.0
MINE 6100 | Applied Structural Geology Advanced analysis of local and regional deformation when applied to mineral exploration and mining. Lectures will focus on the effects of stress in the formation and deformation of mineral deposit and utilization of structural geology methods in mineral exploration and extraction. A variety of case studies related to structurally controlled or deformed mineral deposits will be investigated. Laboratory assignments will include the examination of structural fabrics and textures in drill core and hand sample, structural mapping, geometric analysis of structural data sets, and interpretation of complex stratigraphic columns and geologic maps. Prerequisite(s): MINE 3101 course outline | 3.0
Choose one of the following Liberal Studies electives:
LIBS 7005 | Technology, Invention and Power From ancient Greek myth to modern science fiction, Western culture's depictions of the power of technology have shaped our contemporary views. By analysing selected works of literature, film, TV and Internet sites from different historical periods, students will explore continuities and changes in depictions of technology and its transformative powers. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
LIBS 7007 | Technology and Society This course will explore the interrelationship between technology and society. The course will focus on how societal forces shape and are shaped by the meanings, development, spread, and uses of technology. Concepts, perspectives, and arguments from the social sciences and humanities will be studied and applied to analyze connections between society and technology. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course. course outline | 3.0
Level 7 (15 weeks) | Credits
MINE 7015 | Mining Seminar 1 The Mining Seminar course enables students to present and discuss relevant mining industry topics. Presenters will include students, external faculty and industry representatives. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.0
MINE 7020 | Mineral Industry Economics This course provides students with a comprehensive overview of the economic aspects of mining projects and how mining projects are financed. The fundamentals of economic evaluation using standard industry evaluation tools such as discounted cash flows and other economic indicators will be taught using a series of worked exercises in producing evaluation of actual project cash flows to analyze project economics, compare project financial criteria and perform project risk analysis. Types of financing available to companies to raise funds will be investigated including equity and debt financing. The workings of the stock market will be examined along with methods of raising funds through public and private placements and alternative methods such as flow-through shares, streaming and hedging. The types of royalties that are levied in the mineral industry will be reviewed as will depreciation methods, off-take agreements and taxation regimes (particularly within Canada). The marketing of metals and other mineral commodities will be researched along with an examination of smelter contracts and terms and conditions. Prerequisite(s): ECON 2200 and MINE 6015 course outline | 3.0
MINE 7025 | Innovations in Mining Technology and Design The course provides students with theoretical and empirical tools to analyze mining-related problems and design solutions using emerging technologies. The course is divided into a lecture component and a research component. The lecture component covers topics in leading-edge technologies within the mining industry and the research component provides students with the opportunity to investigate areas of leading edge technologies under development or currently being implemented in the minerals industry. As part of the lecture component students will undertake a series of reading and group presentation sessions of cutting edge research papers in order to build research expertise and presentation skills. Students, in small groups, will select a problem to investigate, conduct research into the topic and design a conceptual solution to the problem. Groups will prepare a concept paper that outlines the problem, the research methods employed and the solution(s) proposed. The problem analyzed and proposed solutions will be presented to peers and faculty for review. Some possible areas for research might be: • Remote sensing technology used in the exploration and mining industry • The development of automated load-haul-dump and drilling equipment in mines • The use of expert systems and tele robotics in mining operations • New designs for ground support and ventilation in deep, hot underground mines • Potential future sources of minerals such as recycling of municipal and mine waste (urban mining) • Mining of ocean floor ore deposits (undersea mining) • Future mining of asteroids (space mining) • Advanced sensing/scanning methods for underground mapping • Automated control strategies in mineral process plants, including fundamentals of sensing/control devices, real-time communication and real-time computing • Emerging technologies for control and amelioration of acid mine drainage (AMD) • New methodologies for maximizing the efficiency of mining operations while minimizing their foot-print • Energy efficiency and environmental improvements in mining and mineral processing Prerequisite(s): MINE 5000 and MINE 6000 course outline | 3.0
MINE 7100 | Exploration Project Design This course covers the application and integration of geochemistry, geological mapping, geophysics, and drilling in the design and implementation of exploration programs. Topics will include: planning and execution of geochemical, geophysical and drill programs, sample assay techniques and assay lab operation, QA/QC methods, transportation and logistics of remote field projects, management of a field camp, and disclosure of exploration results. Fundamental controls on mineralization and prospectivity will be discussed with respect to tectonic setting, metallogenic provinces/belts, and regional structures. Advanced and deposit specific exploration techniques and tools will be reviewed. Selected case histories will be evaluated. Lab assignments emphasize: (1) the design and implementation of multi-component exploration programs, (2) the use of geographical information systems (GIS) in exploration, (3) the interpretation of geological, geochemical and geophysical data for target identification and ranking, (4) collection and analysis of drilling data, (5) mineral exploration QA/QC and maintenance of an exploration database, and (6) the disclosure of exploration program results. A major project is included that will involve the use of real exploration data to design and progress an advanced exploration program. Prerequisite(s): MINE 5005 and MINE 5100 course outline | 5.0
MINE 7110 | Capstone Project 1 The Capstone Project provides a fitting climax to the Mineral Exploration and Mining Engineering Program. This course and MINE 8110 – Capstone Project 2 integrate numerous aspects of the undergraduate program and provide an opportunity for students to focus and apply their skills and knowledge in an open-ended design assessment of a hypothetical mining project. The course simulates the conditions and demands of a typical mining project prefeasibility study and the end product is a completed prefeasibility study report and oral presentation. The students will examine a “cradle to grave” view of a project, from initial planning through to final closure and site remediation. This is a group exercise which develops and draws on team working, time management and resource allocation skills. Working in small groups, and based on project data supplied, students design, cost and evaluate a mining project and its financial viability. The distribution of tasks among the group is the responsibility of the students themselves. In addition this first course covers techniques for project management, as well as preparation and presentation of a detailed project proposal and engineering work plan. It draws on the expertise in engineering theory and design developed earlier in the program and forms the first part of the capstone project. Students gain expertise in forecasting and planning the project life cycle, and identification of project stakeholders, organizational influences and social economic and environmental influences. Prerequisite(s): MINE 5005 and MINE 6000 and MINE 6005 and MINE 6015 course outline | 3.0
Level 8 (15 weeks) | Credits
COMM 8351 | Capstone Project Communication This course is an adjunct to the Mineral Exploration & Mining Engineering Program’s final year Capstone Project course. As part of the capstone project, student groups are required to prepare a comprehensive prefeasibility report on a mining project and to present their findings to an industry audience based on the report. In this course student groups will receive coaching on organizing, writing, editing, and formatting their reports and practice consulting with professionals to complete a project. Effective teamwork and leadership and client communication will be developed. Presentation skills, developed in earlier courses, will be polished in readiness for the final project presentations. Prerequisite(s): COMM 2451 course outline | 1.5
MINE 7000 | Energy Resources This course covers the basic theories and techniques related to exploration, extraction, engineering, and economics of coal, petroleum, gas, nuclear and geothermal resources. The coal resource component includes origin and classification, utilization, conventional mining methods, gasification, cleaning, transportation and uses. Natural gas resources include conventional and unconventional sources, exploration, extraction, processing, transportation and liquefied natural gas (LNG). Petroleum content includes drilling, reservoir characterization and production, benchmarking, refining, and in-situ and mining of oil sands. The nuclear resource section of the course includes uranium exploration, mining, milling and power generation. Current waste management techniques for energy resource facilities are reviewed. An introduction to geothermal resource exploration and usage is included. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MINE 7010 | Mine Reclamation and Closure Design This course, which follows on from MINE 4020 – Environmental Applications, is an advanced design course focusing on the physical aspects of mine closure and site reclamation. The structure of this course is an applied approach with students carrying out research on various topics, including types of mine waste disposal and containment systems and case studies, as well as examples of both well and poorly executed mine closures. Class participation and discussion on research findings is an integral part of the course. This class covers practices, problems and solutions to do with mine closure and reclamation in the mineral industry. Topics include: mine waste and site characterization, landform design and mine closure planning, environmental risk assessment, laws/regulations/standards for mine closure, mine water management, soil erosion issues, generation and control of acid rock drainage and the potential for surface subsidence. Guest lecturers from the industry will provide valuable insights into current state of practice and trends in mine closure and reclamation. The emphasis is placed on technologies and systems design for site specific environmental reclamation. Economic impacts will be considered as part of each design component and students will perform a mine closure and reclamation design project. Prerequisite(s): MINE 4020 course outline | 3.0
MINE 8000 | Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility and Indigenous Awareness This course provides a forum for environmental, ethical and social aspects of the modern mining industry. Approaches to sustainability will be discussed and evaluated using elements of a basic Earth consciousness, human community aspirations, Indigenous perspectives, global industry associations, national agendas, NGOs and corporate sustainability reports. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) refers to an increasing awareness, acceptance, consideration and development of the triple bottom line: economic, environmental and social. Social engagement is a process that commonly involves Indigenous communities and mainstream individuals, community, government and corporations. Its consequences commonly include whether or not a project does or does not proceed with “a social license to operate”. Examples of current CSR, Indigenous issues and social engagement will be reviewed, critiqued and assessed. Prerequisite(s): MINE 4020 course outline | 3.0
MINE 8005 | Mine Management and Occupational Health This course covers the strategic, organizational and operational aspects of management in the minerals industry. Students learn to manage the technical, behavioral, political, social and cultural aspects of diverse groups of stakeholders that are typically found in the mining industry. Topics covered include: defining deliverables, formulating project strategy, effective group organization and management, effective communication with stakeholders (investors, the public, NGO’s, regulatory authorities etc), managing without authority, risk management and resolving conflict. In addition the course will cover the basics of occupational health and safety legislation as it would pertain to mine management functions in accordance with the BC Mines Act. Topics taught will include; HR policies, health and safety practices, emergency preparedness planning, training/development needs on mine sites and the role of the safety department. Prerequisite(s): BUSA 7250 course outline | 3.0
MINE 8015 | Mining Seminar 2 This course is a continuation of MINE 7015 in level 7. Students will continue to engage with industry personnel in a series of presentations and research topics. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 1.0
MINE 8020 | Engineering Law and Ethics This course encourages critical analysis of key issues that mining engineers encounter in law and ethics. Topics include: the Professional Governance Act and the Code of Ethics of the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of B.C., forms of business organization (corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship) and employment (employee / employer, consultant), professional negligence and liability, health, safety and environmental considerations, torts and contracts. The course includes ethical principles in professional employment, engineering management, private practice, anconsulting. The course will also examine the legal considerations for raising finances for exploration and development activities and provide an overview of the key business agreements such as option agreements, joint ventures and royalty agreements​. Prerequisite(s): ENGR 3800 course outline | 3.0
MINE 8110 | Capstone Project 2 Note: This description should be read in conjunction with the description for MINE 7110 – Capstone Project I This course is the sequel to the Capstone Project I course in level 7. It involves completion of the prefeasibility study project and oral presentation begun in level 7. Each team will work to complete the execution of the engineering work plan that was commenced in MINE 7110 by preparing a prefeasibility report and presenting their results. The course draws on expertise in engineering theory, design and project management developed earlier in the program, and brings their capstone engineering design project to an appropriate conclusion. This course will require the involvement of faculty from a number of disciplines principally in mining, geology, mineral processing, economics and technical communication. Prerequisite(s): MINE 7110 and MINE 6010 course outline | 6.0
**Plus one General Education Elective (3.0 credits)
**General Education Electives (3.0 credits required)
View the Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering General Education Requirements [PDF] for a list of pre-approved academic disciplines or to access the General Education elective pre-approval form.
Total Credits: | 222.0
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi.
### What is the workload like?
Our engineering program contains a significant workload and contact hours with your instructors. There is an average of 32 hours per week of class time in the first year and 25 hours per week in the remaining three years. You should expect to spend an additional 25 hours per week on your own, completing assignments, preparing for labs, working on projects and studying.
### Explore the courses and classes you will be taking
The Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering program includes courses on geology, surface and underground mining, mineral exploration, mineral processing, soil and rock mechanics, resource estimation, sustainability, mine reclamation, fluid mechanics and engineering economics.
Your learning environment will be a blend of lectures, labs, tutorials and field exercises. Our labs are well equipped to support your learning needs. In addition to time spent in the classroom, there are a number of day long and multi-day field trips to examine areas of geological interest (significance) and active mining operations. Field courses are also run in mineral exploration.
In the final year you will be required to complete, with guidance from faculty members, a year-long engineering project to design and evaluate a mining project. This capstone project will bring together a number of subject areas studied previously and acquaint you with “real world” engineering problems. In preceding years some of your courses will contain “course-based” projects to prepare you for your final endeavour.
View the program matrix to find a term by term listing of the courses. Click on the title for a quick “drop-down” course description or on the link for a more complete course outline.
### Program length
Four years, full-time.
### Grading
All MINE courses have a minimum passing grade of 50%.
A minimum GPA of 70% in the first year is required to be eligible for entry into the second year.
From year two onwards students are required to maintain a level-by-level weighted average GPA of at least 60% in order to remain in good standing [PDF] .
### Accreditation
Accredited undergraduate engineering programs provide the education necessary for licensure as a Professional Engineer (P.Eng.) in Canada. Engineers Canada , through the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB), accredits undergraduate engineering programs at Canadian higher education institutions. Accreditation of a program is granted only after there has been a cohort of students graduated from the program.
Graduates of an accredited engineering program in B.C. are eligible to register with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of BC (APEGBC) as an Engineer-in-Training (EIT). Once they gain four years of engineering work experience and complete the professional practice exam, they will qualify for a licensure and the designation of Professional Engineer.
The Bachelor of Engineering in Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering program has been designed to be eligible for accreditation by the CEAB and the Program will be seeking accreditation in the year of the first graduating class. For students graduating prior to accreditation being granted and who intend to pursue registration as a Professional Engineer there is a well-defined path to becoming an EIT that will require passing of the US Fundamentals of Engineering exam (F.E.) as evidence that they have met the academic requirements for licensure.
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
Each year of the program is divided into two terms - the first term runs from September to December (15 weeks) and the second term runs from January to the end of April (15 weeks) with a one week spring break in the middle.
In the program matrix below you will find a term by term listing of the courses. Click on the title for a quick "drop-down" course description or on the “course outline” link for a more complete course outline. Note: Course outlines are available only for existing courses that are currently offered.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
## Graduating & Jobs
Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi.
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi.
You have a great team of committed faculty, staff and industry advisors supporting your learning!
BCIT instructor passion for teaching helps enable students to succeed in their BCIT studies.
Our faculty instructors are highly qualified geologists, engineers and applied scientists who have many years of teaching experience. Many of them are Professional Geologists or Engineers, have worked in industry and continue to maintain close ties with industry. Faculty office locations and phone numbers are available from the BCIT Directory .
### Mining Program Faculty
### Shawna Waberi, MSc, PGeo
Geology Instructor and Academic Program Head Geology, Mineral Deposits, Computer Applications, Field school and tours E: swaberi@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Shawna teaches courses on mineral deposits, software applications, pre-feasibility studies, exploration field methods and leads field trips in British Columbia and the United States. Shawna’s research interests include 3D spatial learning in geology and mine engineering, field-based experiential learning and practical application of mineral deposit models in exploration.
Shawna has 10 years of experience in brownfields exploration, resource delineation and evaluation, in base and precious metals deposits in central and eastern Canada.
Education
- MSc, Applied Geology, Queen’s University
- BSc (Honours), Geological Sciences, University of Saskatchewan
- Instructor Education Diploma, Vancouver Community College
Professional Registration P.Geo., British Columbia
Professional Affiliations Member of the National Association of Geoscience Teachers, Society of Economic Geologists, Geological Society of America, and Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
### Elspeth Barnes, PhD
Instructor and Quality Assurance Coordinator Geology, Mineralogy, Exploration and Field schools E: ebarnes6@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Elspeth has work experience as an economic geologist (prospector, mapper and core-logger) in greenfield and brownfield Pb-Zn exploration projects in Canada and the US. She has also developed and delivered many geology and general science courses for the University of British Columbia, University of Alberta, and Yukon College (now Yukon University) including:
- Advanced Mineral Deposits – 4th year course (UBC and UA)
- Field School Studies – 2nd, 3rd and 4th year courses
- Structural Geology – 3rd year course
- Introductory Mineralogy and Petrology – 2nd year course
- Introductory Geology – 1st year course
- Geophysics – 1st year course
- Geochemistry – 1st year course
Education
- PhD, Geological Sciences, University of British Columbia, 2010
- MSc, Geological Studies, University of Alberta, 2002
- BSc (Honours), Geology and Applied Geology, University of Glasgow, 1999
Additional Information Elspeth has attended the University of British Columbia as an exchange student from the University of Glasgow and volunteered for the summer (as a foreign student) with the Geological Survey of Canada on the Nechako Plateau mapping project (best choice ever!). Her M.Sc. at the University of Alberta focused on the potential for gold mineralization in the Rockies and my Ph.D. included developing a method to measure Li isotope fractionation in a suite of Li-rich, rare element-bearing pegmatites on the Yukon/NWT border. The data from that project suggested fractionation of Li6 and Li7 during magmatic fractionation.
Barnes, E. M., Weis, D., Groat, L. A., 2012. Significant Li isotope fractionation in geochemically evolved rare element-bearing pegmatites from the Little Nahanni Pegmatite Group, NWT, Canada. Lithos, vol. 132-133, p. 21-36.
### Reza Tafti, MSc, PhD
Geology Instructor, Student Coordinator and Part–time Studies Coordinator Geology, Mineralogy, Structural Geology E: reza_tafti@bcit.ca
### Russell Hartlaub, PhD, PGeo
Geology Instructor Geology, Mine & Exploration Safety, Field schools and Mine tours E: russell_hartlaub@bcit.ca
Work Experience
Russell is a professional geologist with an expertise in geological mapping and mineral exploration. His research and consulting interests focus on the search for critical minerals. He has worked extensively with the Alberta, Manitoba, and Saskatchewan Geological Surveys, as well as Geoscience BC. He has taught a wide variety of courses that include Introduction to the Minerals Industry, Mineral Deposits, Mineral Resource Estimation and Mineral Exploration. Russell is a member of the EGBC Geoscience Subcommittee and sits on the Geoscience Credentials Assessment Panel.
Education
- PhD, Earth Sciences, University of Alberta, 2004
- MSc, Geology, University of Regina, 1999
- BSc, Geology, Concordia University, 1995
Professional Registration P.Geo., British Columbia P.Geo., Alberta
### William Oching, MBA, PEng
Mining Instructor Underground Mining, Mine Computer Applications and Mine Projects E: woching@bcit.ca
Work Experience
William is a professional Mining Engineer, with extensive Mining Industry Experience in Canada, and a faculty member at British Columbia Institute of Technology (BCIT). William worked for a number of world-class mining operations including Barrick & Teck Joint venture, Falconbridge Limited, Vale Sudbury Operations, Cameco Corporation, and Nyrstar. He held positions with increasing level of responsibilities in project management, and mine operations.
Education
- MBA, Laurentian University, Sudbury, Ontario, 2009
- BEng, Laurentian University, Sudbury, Ontario, 2006
- Water Engineering Diploma, Uganda Polytechnic Kyambogo, 2000
- Environmental and Occupational Health Certificate, Victoria University, British Columbia, 2019
- Train the Trainer Certificate, Adult and Continuing Education and Teaching, Vancouver Community College, 2023
Professional Registration P.Eng., British Columbia P.Eng., Ontario
Professional Affiliations Member of Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM)
### Staff
Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology Program Assistant Tel: 604-432-8683 Email: TBA
### Advisory committee
- Tom Broddy, Mining Consultant
- Bruce Bried*, Consultant
- Jason Courneyea , MineralsEd
- Gord Doerksen, G. Doerksen Consulting
- Lana Eagle , Consultant
- Megan Gent* , JDS Mining
- Rhea Halfnight LeFlufy, Ascot Resources
- Masaki Miyoshi, Teck Resources Ltd.
- Martin Telford*, Wheaton Precious Metals Corporation
* Denotes an Alumnus/Alumna of the BCIT Program.
## Flexible Learning Courses
### Delivery Mode: ONLINE
Your education is our priority and we will continue to deliver the applied instruction, collaborative experience, and industry connections that you expect from BCIT.
Are you interested in geology, mineral exploration and the mining industry? We offer a variety of continuing education courses for entry-level to professional workers.
Each of the links below will offer a brief course description or give you the opportunity to register for a course.
### Regularly offered courses
MINE 1100 – Introduction to the Minerals Industry
ONLINE COURSE – Introduces students to the wide scope of the minerals industry and prepares them for further courses in mining. The course covers the breadth of the industry from mineral exploration through to processing and marketing of mining products. The history of mining is covered from early ages through to modern times. Considerations regarding the preservation of the natural environment and the concept of sustainable development are introduced.
Dates: normally offered once per term (Fall, Winter, Spring/Summer).
MINE 1101 – Physical Geology ONLINE COURSE – Presents an overview of the processes and materials that form and shape the planet Earth. Labs include rock and mineral description, examination of geological maps and structures, and study of geological processes. This course will appeal to aspiring earth science students as well as non-technical mineral industry personnel looking to better understand geologic fundamentals. For students in other programs, this course can be taken as an elective science credit.
Dates: normally offered once per term (Fall, Winter, and Spring/Summer).
MINE 1017 – Mineral Exploration Field Safety
ONLINE COURSE – Based around AMEBC’s Field Safety guidelines, this course provides an overview of the key safety issues encountered in the mineral exploration environment and is designed for both new field workers and as a refresher for seasoned explorationists.
Dates: continuous enrollment.
Check information on registration for part-time and online courses or contact Mining Program Assistant , at 604-432-8683.
For information on course content and registration, please contact Reza Tafti , Student Coordinator.
## Frequently Asked Questions
Thinking of continuing your education into our Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering Bachelor of Engineering Program?
Our faculty and staff have compiled a list of the most frequently asked questions and their answers. If you have further enquirers please contact the program head .
### Entrance into the Program
- Can past graduates of the technology diploma apply to the degree program and receive credit for the courses they took in the diploma?
- Will this be a competitive entry situation?
- Is there a recency restriction for past technology diploma graduates?
- I am currently enrolled in a mining engineering/geological engineering degree program at another institute. May I apply for advanced placement into the degree program?
- I have a diploma credential from another Canadian Institute of Technology. Would I be able to receive transfer credit for the courses I took and how can I apply for advanced placement into the degree program?
- Is Financial Aid available for this Program?
### About the Program Content
- What is the length of the degree program and how much will it cost?
- Is it possible to complete the degree program over an extended time period beyond the 4 year schedule?
- Does the degree program have a co-op option?
- If a student is accepted into the engineering program will they be awarded a Diploma of Technology after successful completion of second year?
- Will the students in the engineering degree share any common courses with the diploma students in year two?
- What types of courses can we expect in years three and four?
- Will there be mine tour and field school opportunities in years three and four?
- Will we have to pay for the mine tours and field trips?
### Accreditation and Employment
- What kind of degree will I receive when I complete the program?
- Will this be an accredited degree program?
- What will be the role for an engineer with this degree in the field?
- Will I be able to pursue post-graduate studies after completing this degree?
- What type of job might I get?
### Can past graduates of the technology diploma apply to the degree program and receive credit for the courses they took in the diploma?
If you have completed the two-year Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology diploma program (or earlier versions of the diploma) you may be eligible to apply as a Direct Entry student for levels 3, 4 or 5 of the degree program. In order to do so you will need to meet eligibility criteria:
It is recommended that technology diploma graduates review the Direct Entry conditions and requirements under Advance Placement on the Program Entry webpage or contact the Program Head directly.
Top
### Will this be a competitive entry situation?
There may be a limited number of seats available for direct entry students to levels 4 or 5 of the program. If the number of applications exceeds available seats, BCIT will select those applicants deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
Top
### Is there a recency restriction for past technology diploma graduates?
Currently there is five years recency requirement for graduates of the diploma program. However, students who have been out of full-time post-secondary studies for some time might wish to consider taking a refresher higher math course at the same time as completing the make-up courses from levels 3 & 4.
Top
### I am currently enrolled in a mining engineering/geological engineering degree program at another institute. May I apply for advanced placement into the degree program?
You may be eligible for Advanced Placement. It is recommended that those interested in transferring into the BCIT Degree program review the conditions and requirements under Advance Placement on the degree program website or contact the Program Head directly.
Top
### I have a diploma credential from another Canadian Institute of Technology. Would I be able to receive transfer credit for the courses I took and how can I apply for advanced placement into the degree program?
Please see the answer to the question above.
Top
### Is Financial Aid available for this Program?
Yes, a variety of types of financial aid are available to Engineering Program students, including entrance awards, bursaries, student loans and academic awards.
Top
### What is the length of the degree program and how much will it cost?
The degree program is a full-time four year program at the BCIT Burnaby campus. There is one year common with the diploma of technology followed by three additional years of degree program study. Please see the Fees, Payments and Refunds section of the website for information on full-time tuition fees. In addition students should budget between $1200 – $1700/year for books, supplies and tours.
Top
### Is it possible to complete the degree program over an extended time period beyond the 4 year schedule?
Students do have the option to leave the program for a year or two for personal reasons or for a work program. On return they must apply for re-admission into the program. Currently the time limit for completion of the degree program is 7 years.
Top
### Does the degree program have a co-op option?
Currently the degree program does not offer a formalized work co-op option. Students who wish to pursue a work term, may temporarily leave the program for a year and return the following year to continue their studies.
Top
### If a student is accepted into the engineering program will they be awarded a Diploma of Technology after successful completion of second year?
No. Students in the Degree stream won’t receive a Diploma of Technology at the end of year 2. Degree students will not take some courses required for graduation from the diploma program. For degree stream students to receive a diploma they will need to take a set of courses from year two of the diploma program.
Top
### Will the students in the engineering degree share any common courses with the diploma students in year two?
Yes. For degree students in level 3 all courses except one math course are common with the diploma students. In level 4 there are six common courses with the diploma students.
Top
### What types of courses can we expect in years three and four?
Courses in these years will be specialized courses in subjects such as; advanced geology, mineral exploration, resource estimation, mining engineering, mineral economics, Mine reclamation and mine management. A description of all degree courses is available on the website.
Top
### Will there be mine tour and field school opportunities in years three and four?
Yes, mine and geology tours will form an important part of the educational experience in years three and four. It is intended to have at least one organized tour during these two years and students in fourth year will be encouraged to organize their own tour. Field schools will form part of the formal coursework.
Top
### Will we have to pay for the mine tours and field trips?
Some of the cost for mine tours will be covered by funding from endowment funds. For the first year geology trip and local mine tour there is a $100 commitment fee and for the second year international mine tour there is a $250 commitment fee. A similar fee will be charged for mine tours in years three and four. Students are expected to cover their food costs. Costs for field trips that are integral to courses will be covered by the program.
Top
### What kind of degree will I receive when I complete the program?
A Bachelor of Engineering in Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering.
Top
### Is this an accredited program?
The Mining and Mineral Resource Engineering program is accredited by Engineers Canada. Graduates of the degree will be eligible to be registered with Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia (EGBC) as an Engineer-in-Training (EIT).
Top
### What will be the role for an engineer with this degree in the field?
The aim of this degree program is to graduate qualified engineers who will take a practical and leading role in the discovery, evaluation and development of mineral resource projects as well as in the operation, management and remediation of operating mines. The program has a strong practical focus built upon a broad foundation of engineering theory, analysis and design and will provide graduates with the skills and knowledge for a role as an engineer on both exploration projects and at operating mines.
Top
### Will I be able to pursue post-graduate studies after completing this degree?
There are currently no post-graduate programs in mining offered at BCIT. However, it may be possible to apply to universities that offer Master’s and Doctoral programs once you have completed the degree program and obtained your credential.
Top
### What type of job might I get?
Graduates of the program will be qualified for a variety of positions including:
- On Mining Operations: Mine planning and mine design Drilling & Blasting Ground control Front line supervision Safety and O/H Mine management Reclamation and environmental control
- On Mineral Exploration Programs: Core logging and QA/QC Resource modelling Project design and management (with supervision)
- In Service and support companies: Explosives companies Computer software companies Engineering and environmental consulting firms Investor relations with exploration and mining companies
Top
## Field School
The mineral exploration field school is an eight day field course that is part of the two-year Technology diploma and four year degree programs. It introduces students to a wide range of geological and mineral exploration field techniques. These techniques include
June 2015 – Students examining exposed rock face near BCIT’s Field School, Oliver, B.C.
- Basic field methods: compass use, map orientation, field notes, pace and compass, working with varied scales and keeping located in the field.
- Geological field methods: strike and dip, sample collection, field description of rocks, minerals and formations, map making, field sketches, and preparing field cross-sections.
- Exploration methods: prospecting, grids and grid mapping, tracing zones of mineralization, trenching, soil sampling, geophysics, exploration sampling, identification of mineralization, report preparation.
The school takes place in the spring in and around Oliver in the Okanagan Valley, British Columbia. The weather is typically dry with daytime temperatures ranging from the low teens to low thirties (Celsius).
The field school course involves visiting various sites for half-day exercises, followed by a 3-day mapping project in the historic Fairview Mining camp.
Please contact Mining Program Assistant , if you have any further questions regarding the camp.
## Contact Us
Note: This program has been suspended, effective for the September 2026 intake. For more information, please contact Shawna Waberi.
Mineral Exploration and Mining Technology Program Assistant Tel: 604-432-8683 Email: TBA
Shawna Waberi Academic Program Head Tel: 604-454-2217 Email: swaberi@bcit.ca
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
