URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/nuclear-medicine-diploma-full-time-6705dipma/
Title: Nuclear Medicine
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Nuclear Medicine
Diploma Full-time School of Health Sciences
## Overview
Nuclear medicine uses biological tracers combined with radioactive material to produce images that help diagnose and manage disease. As a specialized branch of non-invasive diagnostic imaging, nuclear medicine stands out for its ability to detect subtle changes in the body’s function, allowing early detection of a wide range of disorders.
Note: The September 2026 intake is now closed for new applications. Applications for the September 2027 intake will be accepted starting October 1, 2026.
Delivery: in person. See details .
### About the program
BCIT’s highly regarded Nuclear Medicine Technology program is the only one of its kind in BC. Our quality instructors and in-hospital clinical training prepare students to start their careers the moment they graduate.
- A continuous 24-month full-time diploma program
- On-campus lectures and labs provide the fundamentals of nuclear medicine and patient care
- Clinical experiences at nuclear medicine facilities in BC
To learn more about BCIT’s Nuclear Medicine Diploma program, visit Program Details .
### Who it’s for
This program is for individuals who:
- Have a high school diploma or higher level of education Have demonstrated a strong aptitude for sciences Want to work directly with patients as part of a collaborative healthcare team Thrive in an innovative, technical, and caring environment Are interested in developing problem-solving and critical thinking skills Have manual dexterity to work with sensitive material and equipment Are BC Residents
Does this sound like you? See Entrance Requirements to find out if this program is a good fit for you.
### What grads can do
Our grads are an integral part of patient care. See Graduating and Jobs to learn what a future in nuclear medicine looks like.
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
Applications are accepted during the following period:
Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
October 1st* | September 1st*
Intake may fill before the deadline.
Indigenous applicants : This program is committed to the recruitment and retention of Indigenous applicants. To support applicants, a dedicated Indigenous admissions process was established, and dedicated seat(s) per intake are reserved for Indigenous students.
To be considered under this admission category, applicants must:
- Self-identify as an Indigenous person of Canada on the admission application
- Have successfully completed the program’s entrance requirements.
Our program also works closely with Indigenous services at BCIT to ensure students receive the best possible support and encouragement while in the program. Please visit Indigenous Initiatives for more information on available resources.
### Entrance requirements
This program has a two-step admission process. Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements
- English language proficiency: Category 1 – English Studies 12 (73%) or equivalent
- Math: one of the following (or equivalent): Pre-Calculus 12 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or MATH 0001 –
 Technical Mathematics (73%) or MATH 0120 –
 Math 12 Competency Test (73%) or 3.0 credits post-secondary math (linear algebra, pre-calculus or calculus) at 
100 level or higher (73%) from a recognized institution
- Biology: one of the following (or equivalent ): Anatomy and Physiology 12 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or BHSC 0110 – Foundational Human Anatomy and Physiology (73%) or BHSC 0100 – Human Biology (73%) or BHSC 0012 – Biology 12 Challenge Exam 
(73%) or 3.0 credits of post-secondary human biology (73%) 
from a recognized institution
- Chemistry: one of the following (or equivalent) Chemistry 12 (73%) or CHEM 0120 – Chemistry 12 Challenge Exam (73%) or 3.0 credits of post-secondary chemistry (73%) from a recognized institution
- Physics: one of the following (or equivalent): Physics 11 (73%) or PHYS 0309 – Pre-Entry Physics 1 (73%) or PHYS 0110 – Physics 11 Challenge Exam 
(73%)
- Complete the following forms for submission with your online application: Applicant Acknowledgement of Requirements [PDF] : To acknowledge the nature of this training and the physically demanding nature of this work. Mandatory Applicant Questionnaire [PDF] : This form will be used with other entrance requirements to assess how prepared the applicant is to enter the program. This will determine if a meeting is required with the program.
If more than five years have elapsed since you completed the math, biology, or physics requirement, upgrading is preferred.
- Students can only write the math, biology, chemistry, and physics challenge exams once .
- A student who registers and writes these exams a second time will be given the mark from their first attempt.
- The post-secondary human biology equivalent courses' content must include cytology and the structure and function of the following organ systems: digestive, cardiovascular, respiratory, nervous, renal/urinary, and reproductive.
- To meet the minimum requirements, applicants must submit final or midterm grades in support of their application. Midterm reports must demonstrate a minimum completion of 50% of the gradable course work.
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
Step 2: Conditionally selected applicants
If you have been conditionally accepted to BCIT, you will be notified and the following information will be required in order to be accepted into the program:
- NMED 0150 – Medical Terminology for Nuclear Medicine (80%) Access to this online course will be provided once you are conditionally accepted.
- Certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) - Level C
- Criminal Record Check [PDF]
- Immunization Review [PDF] Submit to Student Health Services .
 Immunization is a mandatory requirement for this program. For instructions and more information, visit Student Health Services’ Health Science Student Information .
- Consent for Use and Disclosure of Student Information [PDF]
- Volunteer validation letter or workplace reference letter outlining a minimum of 30 hours of work and describing your role and responsibilities in a patient care or public-facing environment Volunteer/Workplace criteria The type of volunteer or workplace experience the Nuclear Medicine program requires of applicants is that of an "interactive" role rather than an "informational" role. Volunteer and/or workplace duties include interacting with patients and/or the general public. These types of interactions exemplify some of the challenges healthcare workers face on a regular basis—for instance, relating to patients and/or the general public who have language barriers, are less mobile, are hard of hearing, or have physical or mental challenges. Examples of interactions with patients and/or the general public include reading, playing games, teaching, and providing mobility assistance. Some of the best environments to gain an all-inclusive sensory experience of sounds, smells, and sights of the patient include: Extended/long-term care facilities Retirement/seniors facilities Hospital wards Medical clinics The volunteer experience must be current within two years from the start of the application intake cycle. Volunteer and/or workplace validation letter(s) is required from the facility supervisor or volunteer coordinator. The letter must be on business letterhead and include: Supervisor or coordinator’s contact information Start and end dates of employment The number of volunteer/employment hours completed A brief description of the roles and responsibilities performed
### Clinical requirements
Note: Effective immediately, all health care workers who come into contact with patients at publicly funded health care facilities or in the community, including at long-term care facilities, will have to get the influenza vaccine or wear a mask during flu season. This policy affects all students who will be entering a clinical setting. As such, you will be required to provide proof of your immunization or agree to wear a mask at all times through the flu season prior to being placed in your clinical studies.
Face respirator fit testing
A face piece respiratory fit test is required before students are permitted to enter the clinical practicum. Upon successful completion of the fit test, the original certificate must be presented to the program and annual re-fitting is required. Students are expected to carry their certificate with them at all times during their practicum.
For the respirator fit testing, testing with a N95 respirator is required and must be performed in accordance with CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-02. Fit testing must also include inspection, cleaning, maintenance, and storage of protective equipment. Students will be given specific instructions on how to access fit testing by the program prior to the first clinical practicum. Students are responsible for paying for the annual fit test while in the program.
### Recommended for success
Since the work is highly technical and exacting, you must feel comfortable with complex instruments, possess considerable manual dexterity, and have meticulous work habits. You must also have a strong sense of responsibility and a desire to work as a health-care team worker. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills are required.
### International applicants
This program is not available to international students. View available programs .
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Costs & Supplies
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition fees, visit Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees .
### Books & supplies
Level 1: $1,260 Level 2: $545 Level 3: $435 Level 4: $950
(general estimated cost, subject to change)
Face respirator fit testing: approx $25 per year, annual re-fitting required.
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
The Nuclear Medicine curriculum has been revised effective for the September 2025 intake. Students who began the program prior to September 2025, please refer to the September 2024 Matrix [PDF] .
### Program matrix
Level 1 (15 weeks) | Credits
BHSC 1108 | Anatomy & Physiology 1 (NMED) ​This is the first of two consecutive courses that provide a comprehensive study of normal anatomy and physiology of the human body, relevant to Nuclear Medicine. This course includes essential principles of biochemistry, cytology, and histology that serve as the foundation for the study of human organ systems. The course also covers the integumentary system, skeletal system, nervous system essentials, muscular system essentials, cardiovascular system and lymphatic system. The next anatomy and physiology course, BHSC 2108, covers the remaining organ systems that are relevant to Nuclear Medicine.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
BHSC 1440 | Human Behaviour (NMED) Integrating concepts from psychology, sociology, and interpersonal relations, this course teaches students essential active listening and interpersonal communication skills for working in interdisciplinary and multicultural healthcare settings. Students learn foundational interpersonal communication skills, including emotion regulation, active listening, nonverbal communication, empathy, probes, feedback, and assertion. Using role-plays and scenario-based learning, students practice responding to common healthcare situations, including working with patients/clients in distress, asking sensitive questions, navigating conflict, setting professional boundaries, responding to feedback, and speaking up to promote safety. This course emphasizes self-awareness, trauma-informed care, anti-racism, and communication skills to promote cultural safety and humility. Classroom sessions integrate clinical scenarios, role plays, and group discussions. Active participation and engagement with material is expected. Evaluation of learning is based on assignments, exam(s), presentation, and communication skill utilization.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
COMM 1175 | Professional Communication for Nuclear Medicine ​This course will enable nuclear medicine students to communicate effectively with colleagues, patients, the public, and the wider medical profession, focusing on writing skills, presentation skills, and teamwork. Students will learn methods of organizing information to ensure communication is clear, concise, accessible, and suitable for the target audience. Students will also have the opportunity to work in interprofessional teams with other health professional students to develop interprofessional competency in role clarification. Finally, students will develop a resume and cover letter.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
MATH 1760 | Applied Mathematics for Nuclear Medicine ​This course emphasizes the integration of problem-solving strategies with mathematical and calculator skills in the context of nuclear medicine applications. Topics include unit conversions, ratios and proportions, logarithms, exponential growth and decay (physical, effective, biological half-lives, transmission of shielded radiation), graphing techniques (logarithmic), appropriate curve-fitting (least squares), and an introduction to descriptive statistics and probability.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
NMED 1125 | Radiopharmacy and Radiochemistry 1 ​This course introduces the fundamental knowledge, skills and safety measures required for best practices in a simulated nuclear medicine environment. Topics include an overview of common safety principles as set out by the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC), WHMIS, and industry guidelines related to radiopharmacy operations, handling of biohazardous materials and sharps, chemicals, and radioactivity. Students will gain theory and practical experience in basic radiopharmacy applications, including elution of 99Mo/99mTc radionuclide generators; calculation, preparation, and dispensing of radiopharmaceuticals; quality-control procedures; venipuncture technique; and maintenance of records according to CNSC.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 6.0
NMED 1150 | Radiation Safety 1 ​This course provides the comprehensive knowledge and practical skills necessary for ensuring the safe and responsible use of radiation in the field of nuclear medicine. Students will gain an understanding of federal and provincial regulations governing the use of radiation, licensing requirements, and the importance of adhering to radiation safety protocols. Additionally, the effects of radiation on cells will be explored, along with strategies for minimizing radiation exposure and effectively communicating risks to patients, staff, and the public. Practical aspects of radiation protection, such as the appropriate use of protective equipment, implementation of personal protective measures, and the application of the ALARA (As Low As Reasonably Achievable) principle, will also be covered. Students will learn the necessary steps to respond to incidents involving radioactivity, ensuring a prompt and efficient handling of such situations.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
PHYS 1120 | Physics for Nuclear Medicine and Lab 1 ​This is an introductory course to the basics of radiation physics and its applications to nuclear medicine. It offers an in-depth exploration of fundamental concepts and principles related to nuclear decay, X-ray generation, radiation detection systems, nuclear reactors, and nuclear reactions. Throughout the course, students will engage in hands-on experiments and problem-solving exercises related to each topic. Moreover, the course will go over real-world examples to connect theoretical knowledge with practical applications. By the end of the course, students will have acquired a foundational understanding of nuclear physics, radiation science, and their applications in nuclear medicine.​ Prerequisite(s): PHYS 0309 or Grade 11 Physics Equivalent course outline | 6.0
Level 2 (20 weeks) | Credits
BHSC 2108 | Anatomy & Physiology 2 (NMED) ​This is the second of two consecutive courses that provide a comprehensive study of the anatomy and physiology of the normal human body in the context of nuclear medicine. This course covers the respiratory system, digestive system, urinary system, nervous system and endocrine system.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in BHSC 1108 course outline | 4.0
BHSC 2208 | Pathophysiology 1 (NMED) ​This course introduces the principles of pathophysiology of the select organ systems commonly investigated by nuclear medicine procedures. Students will begin with modules on tissue adaptations to stress, inflammation, infection and neoplasia, and continue to include the roles these mechanisms play in the dysfunction of skeletal, cardiovascular and respiratory systems. Learners also engage in critical assessment of literature relevant to nuclear medicine practice. ​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in BHSC 1108 course outline | 3.0
HSIP 1000 | Health Sciences Interprofessional Patient Care ​The students in this course will gain the fundamental knowledge and skills for patient care in an interprofessional environment, learning with, from, and about other health science learners. Students will be introduced to health and safety measures, learn how to complete a variety of basic healthcare procedures, and develop competency in the use of equipment commonly used in various healthcare settings. This course will provide the knowledge and skills to effectively support patient care during various clinical skills. Theory is supported with supervised laboratory activities designed to give students opportunities to apply critical thinking and manual skills to a variety of patient care situations. *Note: Although the term “patient” is used in this course, it is intended to also mean “client”, “community member”, or “person”. In this course, we use the term “patient,” with the understanding that patients are persons who contribute equally and meaningfully to the healthcare team. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 2.0
NMED 1100 | Nuclear Medicine Patient Care This course builds on the concepts introduced in HSIP 1000 (HSIP Patient Care) to equip the student with specific knowledge and skills necessary for working in a nuclear medicine department and general hospital environment. Students will participate in simulations and hands-on learning activities that emphasize best practice and reinforce patient care theory. Students will be given opportunities to reflect on their knowledge and skills during simulated patient care situations. Prerequisite(s): HSIP 1000 course outline | 2.0
NMED 1140 | Professionalism 1 ​This course introduces professional practice in the clinical setting. Topics will include professional behaviours such as following organizational policies and a code of conduct, including punctuality, accountability, and appropriate dress code. Students will practice conducting professional patient introductions and explanations and obtaining medical histories and informed consent while maintaining patient privacy and confidentiality. They will learn how to engage in reflective practice to look for knowledge gaps and learn how to seek and respond to feedback appropriately. They will also learn about best-practice guidelines and legal requirements and apply these to common clinical scenarios. This course also clarifies roles within a healthcare team to optimize patient safety, and considers some simple ways students can support and promote the nuclear medicine profession. Overall, the course equips learners with the necessary skills and mindset for professional growth and excellence to lay the foundation for best practice in a clinical environment.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in COMM 1175 course outline | 2.0
NMED 2100 | Nuclear Medicine Procedures and Lab 1 This course integrates theoretical knowledge of nuclear medicine and molecular imaging with common diagnostic procedures to prepare students for clinical practice. Students will apply knowledge of radiopharmaceuticals, anatomy and physiology, and pathophysiology to protocol-planning, and will develop decision-making skills based on scientific literature and best-practice standards for various clinical procedures. Students will have the opportunity to practice key skills related to common diagnostic procedures during various lab simulations on a SPECT/CT gamma camera and image-processing workstation. Topics covered in this course include the following categories: skeletal, cardiac, and respiratory.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 1125 course outline | 7.0
NMED 2125 | Radiopharmacy 2 ​NMED 2125 Radiopharmacy 2 builds on NMED 1125 Radiopharmacy and Radiochemistry 1. Students continue practicing core radiopharmacy skills related to knowledge and safety in radiopharmacy operations, handling of biohazardous materials and sharps, chemicals, and radioactivity. They will advance in these areas in terms of independence, efficiency, and safety. Some specific areas of practice include basic indications, mechanism of localization, preparation, and quality-control guidelines for a variety of radiopharmaceuticals used in a nuclear medicine department. Using the manufacturer package insert or best-practice guidelines, ALARA, and CNSC regulations, students will perform generator elution and QC, radiopharmaceutical preparation and QC, dose dispensing, record-keeping, and managing inventory and equipment, as well as other common lab procedures.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 1125 course outline | 4.0
NMED 2180 | Introduction to Clinical Experience ​This is an introductory clinical experience that provides two weeks in the nuclear medicine department of an affiliated hospital. The student is provided with opportunities to develop the skills necessary to work safely in a nuclear medicine environment. The student will apply their skills in patient care and assist with nuclear medicine procedures. This course may also include introductory visits to specialized nuclear medicine departments, such as PET-CT, pediatrics, or a central radiopharmacy.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
PHYS 2120 | Physics for Nuclear Medicine and Lab 2 This course covers the foundational physics and instrumentation concepts used in nuclear imaging with a gamma camera, including: The design and operation principles of scintillator-based radiation detectors, building on the relevant radiation physics from PHYS 1120. The overall design, components, and operation of a gamma camera, including how the design and operation are related to clinical imaging protocols, differences in camera performance, quality control, and image quality. Analysis of how the camera detects radiation, how planar images are produced, and how these are related to the properties and potential artifacts in human imaging. Evaluation of image quality, including the connections to clinical imaging protocols. Measurement and evaluation of gamma camera performance, including uniformity and spatial resolution and how they relate to the needs of routine quality control. Throughout this course, aspects of physics and instrumentation are given in the context of how to achieve optimal quality of diagnostic information in clinical nuclear medicine imaging. Students will use their foundational knowledge of nuclear medicine instrumentation as a basis for understanding new scientific and technical information to promote continued and life-long learning. The course labs support the course materials by providing hands-on experience in operating and troubleshooting nuclear instrumentation to perform relevant tasks and explorations. Prerequisite(s): 65% in PHYS 1120 course outline | 6.5
Level 3 (12 weeks) | Credits
BHSC 3108 | Cross-Sectional Anatomy ​This course expands on the human anatomy covered in BHSC 1108 and BHSC 2108 and provides an introduction to the study of relational and cross-sectional anatomy using a regional approach. Students will gain experience and proficiency analyzing CT and MRI images of regions of the human body in the three cardinal body planes.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in BHSC 2108 course outline | 2.5
BHSC 3208 | Pathophysiology 2 (NMED) ​Pathophysiology 2 continues from BHSC 2208 Pathophysiology 1. The course emphasizes the pathology of the organ systems most frequently encountered in the practice of nuclear medicine, including gastrointestinal, hepatobiliary, endocrine, central nervous system and renal disorders. Students also engage in critical thinking using clinical case study assignments.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in BHSC 2208 course outline | 2.5
NMED 2190 | Clinical Experience 1 ​This is the first summer clinical practicum experience, providing 12 consecutive weeks (4 days/week) of rotations in a nuclear medicine department at an affiliated hospital. Opportunities will be provided for students to develop the skills necessary to work safely and competently, while assisting with and performing various nuclear medicine procedures. Students will be scheduled in a variety of nuclear medicine department areas alongside a registered technologist. Clinical duties will provide opportunities for students to apply their skills in patient care, study acquisitions, and computer-processing of acquired data. Students may also be scheduled in radiopharmacy and/or a cardiac stress lab where applicable. Students must successfully complete a minimum of one competency evaluation by the end of this course.​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of Level 2. course outline | 13.5
Level 4 (15 weeks) | Credits
MRAD 3510 | Computed Tomography 1 This course will provide the students with the theory and application required to gain understanding of the operational function of Computed Tomography (CT) equipment and common CT scan examinations. Emphasis is placed on fundamental principles required to perform CT data acquisition and image reconstruction in routine procedures of the head, neck, chest, abdomen and pelvis, spine and extremities, including patient care and positioning. Students will also acquire peripheral intravenous insertion skill development, an in depth understanding of the theory and practice of intravenous contrast media use in CT including anticipating and management of contraindications and reactions. In addition, students will be required to apply theory to the use of the dual head injector power pump contrast delivery system including safety considerations of its use. Commonly occurring acute and non-acute pathologies associated with routine CT exam indications will also be incorporated. ​ Prerequisite(s): All MRAD Term 2 courses. course outline | 4.0
NMED 2150 | Radiation Safety 2 ​This course provides the in-depth knowledge and practical skills necessary for ensuring the safe and responsible handling of nuclear materials in the field of nuclear medicine. Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of relevant legislation and regulations pertaining to radiation protection and nuclear medicine practices. Emphasis will be placed on effective communication of accurate information regarding procedures, risks, and safe practices to patients, support persons, personnel, and the public. Practical aspects of radiation protection, including the appropriate use of radiation detectors and protective equipment, will be covered extensively. Students will learn to apply the ALARA (As Low As Reasonably Achievable) principle effectively to minimize radiation exposure while achieving optimal diagnostic or therapeutic outcomes. Students will acquire the skills necessary to respond efficiently to radioactive spills, radiation emergencies, facility emergencies, and safety incidents. The course will explore radiation safety considerations and procedures involved in planning and administering therapeutic procedures in nuclear medicine.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 1150 course outline | 2.0
NMED 3100 | Nuclear Medicine Procedures 2 This course integrates theoretical knowledge of nuclear medicine and molecular imaging with common diagnostic procedures to prepare students for clinical practice. Students will apply knowledge of radiopharmaceuticals, anatomy and physiology, and pathophysiology to protocol-planning, and will develop decision-making skills through the review of evidence-based literature and best-practice standards for various clinical procedures. Topics covered in this course include the following categories: gastrointestinal and endocrine.​ ​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 2100 and 65% in NMED 2125 and 65% in BHSC 3208 course outline | 3.5
NMED 3110 | Nuclear Medicine Procedures 2 Lab ​This course is designed to support the topics covered in NMED 3100. Students will apply knowledge and practice clinical skills related to common diagnostic procedures through various lab simulations in the radiopharmacy, SPECT/CT gamma camera, and image-processing workstation. Students will also develop clinical reasoning skills and decision-making while working in a collaborative team environment. Students will be assessed on accuracy, safety, and professionalism during each lab activity. Clinical procedures covered in this course include the following categories: gastrointestinal and endocrine. Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 2100 and 65% in NMED 2125 and 65% in BHSC 3208 course outline | 3.5
NMED 3180 | Clinical Experience 2 ​This is the fall term clinical practicum experience, providing 6 weeks (4 days/week) of rotations in a nuclear medicine department at an affiliated hospital. Opportunities will be provided for students to develop the skills necessary to work safely and competently, while assisting with and performing various nuclear medicine procedures. Students must continue to demonstrate punctuality, accountability, and consistent attendance in a professional manner. Students will be scheduled in various nuclear medicine department areas alongside a registered technologist. Clinical duties will provide opportunities for students to apply their skills in patient care, study acquisitions, and computer-processing of acquired data. Depending on the clinical site, students may also be scheduled in radiopharmacy and a cardiac stress lab. The student may also be scheduled at PET-CT or pediatric department rotations. Students must successfully complete an additional two competency evaluations by the end of this course.​ Prerequisite(s): S in NMED 2190 course outline | 6.5
NMED 4120 | Nuclear Medicine Instrumentation ​This course focuses on the practical operation and quality control of routine equipment used in nuclear medicine. Emphasis is placed on scintillation detectors, SPECT/CT gamma cameras, and image-processing software. Students will learn how to evaluate equipment performance and choose appropriate parameters to acquire and optimize data or images. Students will also perform different image-processing methods and apply various image-display options to enhance image quality and reduce artifacts.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in PHYS 2120 course outline | 2.5
PHYS 3120 | Physics for Nuclear Medicine 3 This course explores the physics, instrumentation, and mathematical principles foundational to the tomography modalities (SPECT, PET, and CT) used in nuclear medicine. It begins with an overview of the basic concepts and terminology common to all modalities, including the relationships among different datasets. It then covers data-processing, such as filtering and tomographic reconstruction, followed by reconstruction techniques, quantitative corrections, and the parameters related to reconstructed image quality and quantitative accuracy. SPECT, PET, and CT modalities are then explored: SPECT—specific instrumentation, techniques, acquisition, and reconstruction parameters; quantitative corrections such as CTAC and quality control PET—the physics of positron annihilation and its use in PET imaging; PET scanner design and performance; PET quantitative corrections and quality control CT—the physics and instrumentation of X-ray CT, starting with X-ray beam production and interactions in the body; different generations of CT scanner design and acquisition concepts such as pitch; CT acquisition and reconstruction concepts in terms of the relationship between image quality and patient dose. The course material ends with a description of CT quality control and how CT is used in SPECT and PET imaging. Students will use their foundational knowledge of medical tomography principles as a basis for understanding new scientific and technical information to promote continued and life-long learning. Prerequisite(s): 65% in PHYS 2120 course outline | 3.0
Level 5 (20 weeks) | Credits
MATH 2760 | Statistics and Research for Nuclear Medicine ​Emphasizes statistical data treatment and decision-making with illustrative nuclear medicine/health applications. Topics include statistical aspects of research, data presentation, modeling with probability distributions, statistical inference, and regression and correlation.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in MATH 1760 course outline | 3.0
MRAD 4510 | Computed Tomography 2 ​This course introduces principles and technological aspects of advanced Computed Tomography (CT) practices. It builds on basic concepts taught in MRAD 3510 Computed Tomography 1 with advanced principles related to data acquisition, iterative reconstruction methods and attenuation correction in fused imaging modalities, as well as major variations in components of advanced CT equipment including PET/CT, SPECT/CT, Dual Energy CT, Dual Source CT and Photon Counting CT. The course also introduces students to the theory and practice of associated protocols and relevant image reconstruction processes and postprocessing related to these modalities. In addition, the course provides an in-depth exploration of CT Angiography, multiphasic exam combinations, CT Colonography, dynamic scanning practices and CT interventional procedures. The course concludes with an overview of CT quality control procedures, and the study of radiation dose related to CT procedures. Prerequisite(s): All Term 3 courses course outline | 2.0
NMED 2140 | Professionalism 2 This course expands upon the first professionalism course by applying legal and regulatory requirements and the CAMRT Code of Ethics to more complex clinical scenarios. It emphasizes the importance of collaborative leadership, interprofessional conflict resolution, and reflective practice. Students will develop critical-thinking skills to identify potential ways to enhance systems of care. They will prioritize their personal health, wellness, and work-life balance, while actively seeking opportunities for professional growth and continuous learning. Students will also complete HSIP 0300 and HSIP 0400 in this course, which are the third and fourth parts of the Interprofessional Education series. HSIP 0300 continues the introduction to the six competencies of interprofessional collaboration. Students from different health care professions will learn with, from and about one another to improve patient care. The lesson will overview collaborative leadership and conflict resolution skills as they apply to interprofessional collaboration. The activities throughout the workshop will cover conflict styles, power, hierarchy, and strategies to address conflict. Students have an opportunity to reflect on their current leadership and conflict styles and supports students to develop a plan for acquisition of entry-to-practice interprofessional competencies in their health care profession. HSIP 0400 encourages the application of the six competencies of interprofessional collaboration to improve patient care. Students from different health care professions will learn with, from and about one another in an online environment. The team activities in this module provide an opportunity to practice interprofessional communication with a focus on collaborative leadership and interprofessional conflict resolution. An unfolding case study with discussion forums support students from multiple professions to engage with each other and share insights from their healthcare profession on a diabetic patient’s journey. Opportunity to reflect on their own personal and team functioning supports students to develop a plan for acquisition of entry-to-practice interprofessional competencies in their respective health care professions.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 1140 course outline | 2.0
NMED 4100 | Nuclear Medicine Procedures 3 ​This course integrates theoretical knowledge of nuclear medicine and molecular imaging with common diagnostic procedures to prepare students for clinical practice. Students will apply knowledge of radiopharmaceuticals, anatomy and physiology, and pathophysiology to protocol-planning, and will develop decision-making skills through the review of evidence-based literature and best-practice standards for various clinical procedures. Topics covered in this course include the following categories: genitourinary, inflammation and infection, tumor-imaging, lymphatics, and central nervous system. Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 3100 and 65% in NMED 3110 course outline | 4.0
NMED 4110 | Nuclear Medicine Procedures 3 Lab ​This course integrates theoretical knowledge of nuclear medicine and molecular imaging with common diagnostic procedures to prepare students for clinical practice. Students will apply knowledge of radiopharmaceuticals, anatomy and physiology, and pathophysiology to protocol-planning, and will developing decision-making skills based on review of evidence-based literature and best-practice standards for various clinical procedures. Students will have the opportunity to practice key skills related to common diagnostic procedures during various lab simulations on a SPECT/CT gamma camera and image-processing workstation. Topics covered in this course include the following categories: genitourinary, inflammation and infection, tumor-imaging, lymphatics, and central nervous system. Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 3100 and 65% in NMED 3110 course outline | 6.0
NMED 4180 | Clinical Experience 3 ​This winter clinical experience provides 8 weeks of practicum. In 2-week rotations, students will be scheduled in various nuclear medicine department areas alongside a registered technologist. Opportunities will be provided for students to apply and further develop their skills in patient care, study acquisitions, radiopharmacy, and computer-processing of acquired data. Four of the 8 weeks will be in a dedicated CT department at an affiliated hospital, where students will perform common diagnostic CT procedures at an advanced novice level. The remaining 4 weeks will consist of clinical rotations in a nuclear medicine, PET-CT, or pediatric department at an affiliated hospital.​ Prerequisite(s): S in NMED 3180 and 65% in MRAD 3510 course outline | 11.0
NMED 4200 | PET and Theranostics ​This course will cover the theory and applications of PET and theranostic procedures by exploring current and emerging diagnostic and therapeutic radiopharmaceuticals. Clinical applications of PET/CT and PET/MR fusion imaging will be discussed. Students will apply knowledge of various PET and theranostic-specific procedures, radiopharmaceuticals, radiation safety, and pathophysiology while reviewing evidence-based literature and best-practice standards. Students will have the opportunity to engage in scholarly practice by completing a research project within the field of PET and theranostics. A visit to a local PET clinic will be scheduled to observe the course theory put into practice.​ Prerequisite(s): 65% in NMED 4120 and 65% in PHYS 3120 NMED 410 ‡ and NMED 4100 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 2.0
Level 6 (14 weeks) | Credits
NMED 4190 | Clinical Experience 4 ​This is the final clinical practicum, providing 12 weeks of clinical rotations in a nuclear medicine department at an affiliated hospital. The student may also be scheduled in radiopharmacy, cardiac stress lab, PET-CT, or pediatric hospital rotations this term. Rotations will be 2 weeks, 5 days per week, in a range of nuclear medicine shifts alongside a registered technologist. Students will be provided with the opportunity to consolidate their skills in patient care, study acquisitions, radiopharmacy, and computer-processing of acquired data. They will complete all remaining competency evaluations and finalize their CompTracker portfolio in order to be considered at a competent entry-to-practice level. Prerequisite(s): S in NMED 4180 Completion of Level 5. course outline | 17.0
NMED 4195 | CAMRT Certification Exam Preparation ​This course will help prepare students for their national certification exam using summative knowledge and skills from the NMED program curriculum and their clinical experience. Students will design a personal study plan with a timeline using the CAMRT national competency profile. They will complete a self-reflection exercise to evaluate their strengths and weaknesses to optimize their study plan. Lastly, students will participate in a radiation safety review workshop and complete mock certification exam(s).​ Prerequisite(s): Completion of all level 5 courses. course outline | 1.0
Total Credits: | 151.0
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
### Program length
Two years, full-time beginning in September each year.
### Grading
All courses require a 65% mark to pass. During Levels 3 and 4, students spend alternate two-week periods of 35 hours per week in the clinical area. The hours listed for these levels are the average hours per week for the term on campus.
### Accreditation
This program is accredited by the Health Standards Organization (HSO) and its affiliate accreditation (AC) through their new EQUAL Canada program .
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
### Continue your education
BCIT offers a Bachelor of Health Science in Magnetic Resonance Imaging that continues from the two-year Nuclear Medicine Diploma program.
## Graduating & Jobs
### Our graduates work
Our grads work in hospital nuclear medicine departments, performing diagnostic imaging for a diverse group of patients. It’s a challenging, hands-on environment. We make sure you graduate with everything needed to thrive and provide the best diagnostic procedures and patient care possible.
### Career opportunities
Grads write the Canadian Association of Medical Radiation Technologists (CAMRT) certification exam to earn their Registered Technologist Nuclear Medicine (RTNM) designation.
Nuclear medicine grads can find work as nuclear medicine technologists in the field of medical radiation sciences. Annual full-time salaries start at approximately $68,000. Our grads support patients from all walks of life in various stages of health, including patients who:
- Are hospitalized or bedridden
- Range in ages from infant to seniors
- Are in various stages of disease diagnosis and treatment
### Keep learning
Enhance your education through post-diploma part-time studies in Health Leadership , Radiation Therapy , or Magnetic Resonance Imaging .
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Nuclear Medicine
### Professional associations
Graduates of the BCIT program are eligible to take the national professional certification examination set by the Canadian Association of Medical Radiation Technologists. Successful candidates may use the designation Registered Technologist Nuclear Medicine (RTNM) and work as registered nuclear medicine technologists anywhere in Canada and in many other parts of the world.
Graduates are also eligible to take professional certification exams offered in the United States by the Nuclear Medicine Technology Certification Board (NMTCB) and the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT).
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
The Nuclear Medicine faculty are known for their skills, expertise, and dedication to student learning. Our instructors are all CAMRT certified technologists and many remain active in the profession.
### Thomas Wong, BSc, RTNM
Program Head, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 604-456-8138 Email: Thomas_Wong@bcit.ca
More about Thomas Wong
Work Experience Thomas has been a faculty member with the nuclear medicine program since 2013. Prior to joining BCIT, he worked as a full-time nuclear medicine technologist at Burnaby Hospital, where he briefly served as the clinical student supervisor.
Education Thomas graduated from the BCIT Nuclear Medicine Program in 2007. In addition to his diploma in nuclear medicine, he has a BSc in Cell & Molecular Biology from Simon Fraser University (2004), full-practice CAMRT membership and certification in nuclear medicine (since 2007), and is currently working towards his provincial instructor diploma in adult education from Vancouver Community College.
Publications & Accomplishments Thomas was the recipient of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Award for Proficiency in Radiopharmacy in 2007. His professional contributions include guest speaker presentations at the 2011 BCAMRT Annual General Conference (Dual Isotope Parathyroid Imaging) and the 2018 CANM/CAMRT Joint Annual Conference (Cardiac Image Enhancement).
Other Thomas’ most important goal as an instructor is to help students achieve clinical competence through the development of critical thinking and decision-making skills. He loves to use active and experiential learning in his classroom to give students the opportunity to apply their knowledge. During his spare time, Thomas enjoys cooking new recipes, playing badminton and ball hockey, and spending time with his family and friends.
### Izaaz Badshah, BSc, RTNM
Program Head, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 604-453-4035 Email: izaaz_badshah@bcit.ca
More about Izaaz Badshah
Work experience Izaaz Badshah is an instructor in the Nuclear Medicine program, as well as practicing Nuclear Medicine Technologist (RTNM) and Radiation Safety Officer (RSO). He has worked in various roles within the Lower Mainland (Radiation Safety Specialist, Radiation Safety Coordinator and Instructional Designer) as well as in quality improvement (Member of Diagnostic Accreditation Program).
Education Izaaz graduated from this program in 2014, having previously completed a Bachelor’s of Science in Cell Biology and Genetics from the University of British Columbia in 2011.
Other In his downtime, Izaaz enjoys hiking, running and playing board games.
### Rebekah Bahr, RTNM
Instructor, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 604-432-8303 Email: rebekah_bahr@bcit.ca
More about Rebekah Bahr
Work and Volunteer Experience Rebekah joined BCIT faculty in 2024 with over 25 years of experience in PET/CT, having 20 years of practice in Molecular Imaging and Therapy at BC Cancer-Vancouver. Originally trained on PET scanning in Portland, Oregon, Rebekah has seen Molecular Imaging and Theranostics emerge and evolve into the exciting, high demand field it is today. Rebekah is passionate about sharing her Nuclear Medicine knowledge and skills with others. She has been Student Coordinator for most of her career and recently had an opportunity to volunteer and teach with RAD-AID International in Nairobi, Kenya. Rebekah is an active volunteer with the CAMRT, where she is currently Chair of the CT Imaging Certificate Committee.
Education Rebekah graduated from the BCIT Nuclear Medicine Program in 1998. She has taken many additional courses, holding the Academic Equivalent to a Bachelor of Science Degree in Nuclear Medicine, with a specialization in Clinical Instruction from the Fielding Institute. Rebekah is currently taking BCIT part time studies to obtain her Associate Certificate in Polytechnic Teaching.
Publications and Accomplishments Rebekah’s professional contributions include several guest speaker presentations on PET imaging. She also authored JNMT case study “The effects of Vitamin C in FDG PET Imaging” in 2015 and has co-authored several other peer-reviewed papers. Rebekah’s team at BC Cancer was the recipient of the 2021 Research Challenge, where the group learned how to demonstrate research and knowledge translation from their evidence-based practice. In 2021, Rebekah was also awarded both the Excellence in Nuclear Medicine, and Excellence in Teaching Awards from CAMRT-BC.
### Joe Cortese, BSc, CRPA (R)
Instructor, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 604-451-6993 Email: Joe_Cortese@bcit.ca
More about Joe Cortese
Work experience Joe has been a faculty member with the nuclear medicine program since 2008. Prior to joining BCIT, he worked at the British Columbia Cancer Agency as a Medical Physics Assistant where he was integral part of a team implementation and designing the Quality Control Program for Linear Accelerators, CT simulators, a Cobalt Teletherapy Unit, and X-Ray Simulator.
Education Joe received his BSc in Physics from the University of British Columbia in 1999. Joe is a Registered Radiation Safety Professional and received his CRPA(R) designation from the Canadian Radiation Protection Association in 2010.
Other Joe is a highly sought after radiation safety instructor in Canada. His training courses consistently receive high ratings and excellent reviews. Joe has been designated an Industry Services trainer for Radiation Safety Officer Courses and Transportation of Dangerous Goods-Radioactive Materials. He has provided instruction of radiation safety to nuclear medicine departments, cancer care centers, fire fighters, laboratories, radiation therapy and occupational health and safety sectors.
### Bryce Gillman, BSc, RT(NM), CT, PET/CT, CRPA(R)
Instructor, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 604-456-8118 Email: bgillman@bcit.ca
More about Bryce Gillman
Work experience Bryce Gillman has been a faculty member with the Nuclear Medicine Program at BCIT since 2015. Prior to joining the BCIT team, he worked as a registered technologist in nuclear medicine at a number of different hospitals in the greater Vancouver area. When he is not teaching, Bryce still picks up shifts regularly in a casual position at BC Cancer Agency in the PET/CT department, as well as in the CT department at Burnaby Hospital and Nuclear Medicine department at Royal Columbian Hospital.
Education In addition to receiving his diploma in nuclear medicine from BCIT, Bryce has completed advanced diplomas in CT and PET/CT through the CAMRT. He also has a BSc. in Kinesiology from Simon Fraser University. He plans to complete his Master’s Degree in Radiation Health Physics in the near future. Bryce is also a Registered Radiation Safety Professional (RRSP) – successfully completing his CRPA(R) designation from the Canadian Radiation Protection Association in 2017. In this role, Bryce has worked with a variety of medical and industrial clients across Canada in both radiation and laser safety. He has performed risk assessments for high powered lasers, conducted audits and developed customized laser and radiation safety manuals. He has had a great deal of experience in the management and safe handling practices of ionizing and non-ionizing radiation in these roles.
Other As an instructor, Bryce loves to share his knowledge and passion for nuclear medicine. He was a presenter at the EANM Annual Congress in Barcelona earlier this year and has previously been a speaker at last year’s CANM/CAMRT Joint Annual Conference presenting on CT dose reduction strategies. He believes in the value of continued professional development and life-long learning. Where possible, Bryce tries to nurture curiosity from students and encourages them to be engaged in their own learning process. When he has spare time, Bryce enjoys hiking, skiing and cycling- taking advantage of the great landscape of British Columbia.
### Andre Ho, BHSc, RTNM, RTMR, CRPA (R)
Instructor, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 778-503-2443 Email: andre_ho@bcit.ca
More about Andre Ho
Work Experience Andre has been a faculty member with the Nuclear Medicine program since August of 2024. Prior to joining BCIT, he worked as a registered technologist in Nuclear Medicine at a number of different hospitals in the greater Vancouver area for 5 years. Most recently, he worked as the Regional Radiation Safety Officer for lower mainland Nuclear Medicine sites. In addition. Andre is also a registered technologist in magnetic resonance imaging and worked at St. Paul’s Hospital.
Education Andre graduated from the Nuclear Medicine program at BCIT in 2017. In addition to his diploma in Nuclear Medicine, he has a Bachelor of Health Sciences with an MRI specialization in 2022 from BCIT. Furthermore, Andre is a Registered Radiation Safety Professional and received his CRPA(R) designation from the Canadian Radiation Protection Association in 2023.
Other Andre’s favourite thing about teaching is seeing how the students grow over time and to see them progress. Outside of his professional pursuits, Andre is an accomplished table tennis player. He has exhibited exceptional skill in this sport, having proudly represented Canada at the 2012 London Olympic Games in both the Men’s Singles and Men’s Team events.
### Heather Hughes, BA, RTNM, CBDT, CT
Instructor, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 604-451-7170 Email: hhughes10@bcit.ca
More about Heather Hughes
Work Experience Heather has been a faculty member with the Nuclear Medicine depardtment since 2017. She also continues to work at St. Paul’s Hospital as a Nuclear Medicine Technologist and Bone Densitometrist where she has worked since 2006.
Education Heather graduated from BCIT with a Diploma of Nuclear Medicine and became CAMRT certified in 2006. In addition to her diploma, Heather has a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Psychology Honours Program from UBC (2003), a certificate in Computed Tomography from BCIT (2011), and she is certified in bone densitometry with the ISCD (2008).
Research and Publications Journal of Neuroscience 2006: “Deletion of the Nuclear Receptor Nr2e1 impairs Synaptic Plasticity and Dendritic Structure in the Mouse Dentate Gyrus”.
Special Interests Heather’s most important goal as an instructor is to share her passion for Nuclear Medicine with future technologists so that they can continue to have one of the most satisfying professions around. She often jokes that Nuclear Medicine is “The best job you’ve never heard of!” and that starts with the eager graduates entering the workforce with the skills and experience that BCIT provides. When Heather is not working, she can usually be found outside hiking, camping, or exploring nature with her family.
### Hayley Olson, BSc, RTNM
Instructor, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 604-451-6738 Email: hayley_olson@bcit.ca
More about Hayley Olson
Work Experience Hayley joined the Nuclear Medicine Faculty at BCIT in 2021. She continues to work as a registered Nuclear Medicine Technologist at multiple hospitals in the lower mainland, as well as at the BC Cancer Agency Vancouver Center as a PET/CT Technologist. Her current work experience in the field is an asset to the students at BCIT.
Education Prior to attending BCIT, Hayley obtained a Bachelor of Science Degree from UBC Vancouver. Through her academic career, Hayley has received multiple scholarships and awards, most recently at BCIT she received the prestigious Governor General’s Award. Since completing her Nuclear Medicine Diploma, she has continued her education by taking Radiation Safety courses and Clinical Instructor workshops. While Hayley has worked as a tutor for many years at both UBC and BCIT, she plans to pursue a Provincial Instructor Diploma now that she is taking on a permanent teaching role.
Other From a young age, Hayley has been heavily involved in volunteer efforts. Most recently, her volunteering has been with her professional association, The Canadian Association of Medical radiation Technologists (CAMRT). She holds a position on the CAMRT-BC Advisory Council, is a Site Ambassador for Abbotsford Regional Hospital, is the Chair of the Nuclear Medicine Program Committee for the 2022 CAMRT Annual Conference, and has worked with the Exam Validation Committee for the CAMRT Nuclear Medicine Certification Exam. When not working or volunteering, Hayley enjoys spending time with her friends and family, traveling, hiking, baking, and reading.
### Louise Rimanic, RTNM
Instructor, Nuclear Medicine Tel: 604-451-7030 Email: Louise_Rimanic@bcit.ca
More about Louise Rimanic
Work experience Louise Rimanic has been a faculty member with the nuclear medicine program since 1998. Louise graduated with distinction from the BCIT Nuclear Medicine Technology Program in 1981. Prior to joining BCIT, Louise worked as a Chief Technologist and Student Supervisor at B.C.Children’s Hospital for 17 years. Louise tries to teach by example and hopes to inspire students to become active members of their profession and adopt a lifelong enthusiasm for learning. For her contributions to the profession, Louise has been awarded the WQ Stirling Award, the Marshall Mallett Lamp of Knowledge and the CAMRT President’s Medal. In her spare time, Louise enjoys cycling, gardening, travelling, and supporting soccer.
## Contact Us
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
