URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/nursing-bachelor-of-science-in-nursing-full-time-8875bsn/

Title: Nursing

================================================================================

## Overview

Overview text

The BCIT BSN program is committed to preparing excellent nurses who are practice ready to meet the complex care needs in today’s health care environment. Visit Program Details to learn more about our BSN program. This program is for individuals who: This BSN program is guided by the British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives (BCCNM) standards. In order to work as an RN, graduates must meet the required competencies and standards set by the College. You can find out more on these sites: Visit Entrance Requirements to learn more about program entry requirements and registration. Registered nurses work in hospitals and community healthcare settings around the world. Visit Graduating and Jobs to discover opportunities.



## Courses

### Term 1

BSNC 1030 - Practice of  Nursing 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc1030/

Credits: 4.0

Description: This course includes the clinical skill acquisition of focused assessments of the older adult living in the community with a chronic illness. This includes some physical assessment and interview of a client/family who has had to navigate the health care system. Experiential learning is used to explore the following concepts: quality and safety in healthcare, and clinical decision making. Learners will apply other concepts learned in Context of Nursing 1 (BSNC 1020), Nursing Knowledge 1 (BSNC 1000) and Communication 1 (BSNC 1055), such as the health of aging adults. Learners begin to access research evidence about healthy lifestyle patterns, risk factors for chronic disease, and apply growth and development theory using a culturally safe approach. Learners begin to assess client’s cognition, mobility, gas exchange and perfusion in various learning spaces, such as the classroom, skills/simulation laboratories, and community practice sites. Learners work as members of a community/inter-professional team, give and receive feedback from peers and instructors about performance, and use reflective thinking about their practice as nursing students. Clinical practice sites are community programs and organizations that focus on supporting and empowering clients/families who are managing chronic health conditions in the community. Learners are provided with an integrative experience to apply Term 1 course concepts while focusing on application of communication skills, focussed health assessments, quality/safety and decision-making skills that promote positive client health outcomes.

Prerequisites: BSNC 0010BSNC 1020‡and BSNC 1000‡and BSNC 0010‡and BSNC 1055‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 0010 - Nursing as a Profession 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc0010/

Credits: 

Description: This course welcomes students to the BCIT BSN program and provides an overview of learning within a concept and competency-based curriculum. This course emphasizes foundational knowledge required to transition into a professional nursing program. Students will explore how to apply an indigenizing lens to concept and competency-based learning, and be introduced to approaches and strategies to help support success in the BSN program. This is a blended course, both online and in-class and will employ active learning strategies.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

BSNC 1000 - Nursing Knowledge 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc1000/

Credits: 4.0

Description: This course will focus on the development of nursing knowledge and thinking processes required to care for individual aging clients who are well or recovered from illness and living in the community. Learners will begin to learn to make selected clinical decisions in the context of nursing science and care by accessing and using current and reliable resources. Specific concepts such as perfusion, cognition and mobility as they relate to the well client's experience of aging will provide the basis for knowledge development and will be illustrated using exemplars such as dementia and osteoporosis. The course will also incorporate knowledge from sciences and other disciplines as it relates to specific exemplars. This course will include active learning strategies such as unfolding case studies to support student learning. This course supports and is integrally linked to the Practice of Nursing 1. The course is co-facilitated by Nursing and Basic Health Science faculty to integrate nursing and science concepts.

Prerequisites: BSNC 0010‡and BSNC 1020‡and BSNC 1030‡and BSNC 1055‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 1020 - Context of Nursing and Health Care 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc1020/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course provides the legal, ethical and contextual foundation for nursing practice in Canada. Students will examine the history of nursing practice, the establishment of nursing as a regulated profession, the role of professional, regulatory and union bodies on the practice of nursing, and contemporary nursing issues and trends. The course will explore professional regulation of nurses in depth and will introduce students to knowledge regarding regulatory requirements outlined by the BCCNM that supports the delivery of safe, competent ethical nursing care. This course offers students an opportunity to develop their understanding of the three categories of BCCNM Standards of Practice: Scope of Practice, Professional Standards and Practice Standards. The course will also provide an opportunity to explore the ethical values of registered nurses. BSNC 1020 is a blended course and will occur using active learning strategies and provide students an opportunity to explore nursing issues/trends/theories and present their work to the class. This course includes an integrated and experiential learning experiences.

Prerequisites: BSNC 1000‡and BSNC 1055‡and BSNC 1030‡and BSNC 0010‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 1055 - Communication in Nursing Practice 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc1055/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course provides an introduction to relational practice, cultural safety, nursing ethics, and caring as foundations of nursing practice. The focus of this course is relating with the individual client in the context of providing nursing care. Learners will explore the concept of the “lived experience” of clients and develop the introductory skills of interpersonal and therapeutic communication. Additionally, learners will identify and discuss the impact of personal values and biases on the provision of client care. This is a blended course, online and experiential, where learners will participate in interactive activities, reflective exercises and clinical practice experiences designed to deepen and consolidate their understanding of relational nursing practice. This course includes an integrated and applied learning experience in a simulated/practice environment.

Prerequisites: BSNC 1020‡and BSNC 1000‡and BSNC 1030‡and BSNC 0010‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

### Term 2

BSNC 2030 - Practice of Nursing 2

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc2030/

Credits: 6.0

Description: This course builds on Practice of Nursing 1, focusing on clinical reasoning and clinical skill acquisition to care for adult clients in an acute care setting experiencing chronic and acute health challenges. Learners will learn and demonstrate related psychomotor skills, and integrate these with client assessment, pathophysiological and pharmacological knowledge to plan nursing care for these clients in acute care situations. Clinical practice guidelines and research evidence are accessed to build learners’ clinical judgments in caring for specific individual clients. Learners will learn and apply the principles of critical inquiry to determine the most appropriate evidence to facilitate prioritizing and planning care for clients. The influence of the determinants of health for adults requiring acute medical intervention will be explored. Knowledge, skills, and attitudes related to client-centered care for adults, teamwork and collaboration, evidence-based practice, quality improvement, safety, and nursing informatics will be considered within the context of nursing practice. This course includes an integrated and applied learning experience in a simulated/practice environment.

Prerequisites: BSNC 1000 and BSNC 1020 and BSNC 1030 and BSNC 0010 and BSNC 1055BSNC 2000‡and BSNC 2055‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 2000 - Nursing Knowledge 2

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc2000/

Credits: 4.0

Description: This course explores pathophysiological processes that contribute to a variety of chronic disease states experienced by adult clients. It builds on conceptual learning from Nursing Knowledge 1, and introduces additional salient concepts and related exemplars for central nervous system regulation, fluid and electrolyte balance, metabolic regulation, nutrition, elimination, infection and pain. Foundational pharmacological concepts are also introduced during this course. Active learning strategies will support learners to explore the impact of chronic disease exacerbation on clients and their families. Learners will apply knowledge of clinical decision making to identify potential nursing assessments and management strategies required for safe client care. This course supports and integrally linked to the BSNC 2030 Nursing Practice 2.

Prerequisites: BSNC 1000 and BSNC 1020 and BSNC 1030 and BSNC 0010 and BSNC 1055BSNC 2030‡and BSNC 2055‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 2055 - Communication in Nursing Practice 2

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc2055/

Credits: 2.0

Description: This course will explore interprofessional communication, teamwork, and collaborative practice in multiple contexts where nurses work with others from a perspective of client safety and quality care. Practice standards and national patient safety competencies will guide learners' understanding and skill development in the areas of teamwork, documentation, negotiation, and assignment and delegation. Additionally, learners will begin to examine conflict and its occurrence within healthcare teams. This is a blended course, online, seminar and self-directed, where learners will participate in interactive activities, reflective exercises and clinical practice experiences designed to deepen and consolidate their interprofessional communication skills. Additionally, learners will have the opportunity to practice group process and presentation skills in seminar activities.

Prerequisites: BSNC 1000 and BSNC 1020 and BSNC 1030 and BSNC 0010 and BSNC 1055BSNC 2030‡and BSNC 2000‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

LIBS 7001 - Critical Reading and Writing*

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/libs7001/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This is a course in advanced composition and rhetoric, in which students will develop skills in complex critical analysis and interpretation by analyzing and evaluating materials from a variety of discourses or genres, including visual, online, and print; developing and writing essays, including critiques and research papers; applying and discussing principles of rhetoric and critical theory; examining and using methods of interpretation and analysis from the humanities and social sciences; evaluating the credibility of primary and secondary sources, including as it applies to media literacy, and for the purposes of academic research; situating discourses within their historical context and relevant to rhetorical theories of different periods (for example, Aristotle in the ancient world and Bakhtin in the twentieth century). The course format will include lecture, discussion, and both individual and group activities.

Prerequisites: 50% in BCIT ENGL 1177 or equivalent, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course.

### Term 3

BSNC 3030 - Practice of Nursing 3

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc3030/

Credits: 6.0

Description: This course focuses on promoting the learners’ critical thinking and decision-making skills when caring for adult clients experiencing surgical interventions. Learners will learn and demonstrate related psychomotor skills, and integrate these with client assessment, pathophysiological and pharmacological knowledge to plan nursing care for these clients in acute care situations. Learners will learn and apply the principles of critical inquiry to determine the most appropriate evidence to facilitate care planning for clients. The influence of the determinants of health for adults requiring surgical intervention will be explored. Knowledge, skills, and attitudes related to client-centered care for adults, teamwork and collaboration, evidence-based practice, quality improvement, safety, and nursing informatics will be considered within the context of nursing practice. This course includes an integrated and applied learning experience in a simulated/practice environment.

Prerequisites: BSNC 2000 and BSNC 2030 and BSNC 2055 and 65% in LIBS 7001BSNC 3020‡and BSNC 3000‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 3000 - Nursing Knowledge 3

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc3000/

Credits: 4.0

Description: This course introduces learners to the pathophysiological processes and pharmacological principles relevant to providing nursing care to clients experiencing surgical intervention. Learners will learn to make appropriate clinical decisions for clients in the perioperative and post-operative context using current, reliable sources of information. They will learn how to select, implement and interpret focused nursing assessments, based on knowledge of pathophysiological processes. They will learn how to teach clients from diverse populations and backgrounds regarding their experience, and communicate effectively with other health professionals to optimize client care. The course incorporates knowledge of pharmacological therapy in relation to specific exemplars. Prioritization of client problems will be highlighted using clinical examples, exemplars, and NCLEX-RN® style questions. Case scenarios and simulation incorporate prioritizing care, delegation and supervision, and family and patient teaching. Learners will learn about nursing informatics and the use of Information and Communication Technologies to support patient care and decision-making. This course includes an integrated and applied learning experience in a simulated/practice environment. These courses are co-facilitated by Nursing and Bioscience Faculty to integrate nursing and science concepts.

Prerequisites: BSNC 2000 and BSNC 2030 and BSNC 2055 and 65% in LIBS 7001BSNC 3020‡and BSNC 3030‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 3020 - Context of Nursing and Healthcare 3

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc3020/

Credits: 4.0

Description: Drawing on key findings from the In Plain Sight report (Government of BC, 2020), and informed by national nursing publications, BSNC 3020 juxtaposes Indigenous strengths, resiliency and worldviews against colonial forces of Eurocentrism and western superiority to understand the impact of sociopolitical and historical forces on health inequities faced by Indigenous Peoples in Canada today. Exploration of the Healthcare System in Canada demonstrates how social structures and institutions have been informed by colonial actions, which directly and indirectly impact health inequities in Canada. Concepts of cultural safety, social justice, trauma and health care system will be explored in this course. These concepts form the basis for identification of strategies to disrupt the status quo to bring about transformative change for Indigenous Peoples in Canada, as it relates to health and wellness. This blended course will occur using active learning strategies and provide learners an opportunity to explore nursing concerns and present their work as a community of learners. This course includes integrated and experiential learning that seeks to influence cognitive and affective domains of learning. Note to learners: This course explores content that may be challenging or triggering for individuals. For Indigenous students, BSN recognizes that the content may evoke responses that make engaging with the content particularly difficult. You are encouraged to practice self care to protect your spirit and to seek supports available at BCIT as necessary. For non-Indigenous students, the content may result in discomfort, defensiveness or other unsettling emotions. You are encouraged to sit with the discomfort as a means to further understand privilege and positionality in a settler colonial society. You are also encouraged to understand that discomfort is different than safety, and that while exploring this content may be uncomfortable, it does not threaten your personal safety. As noted by Hartrick Doane and Varcoe, “given that our attention and choices are shaped and limited by our own reference points, we need to consciously look beyond our habituated taken-for-granted views to inquire into what we do not know and may not be seeing" (2021, p. 32).

Prerequisites: BSNC 2000 and BSNC 2030 and BSNC 2055 and 65% in LIBS 7001BSNC 3030‡and BSNC 3000‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

### Term 4

BSNC 4030 - Practice of Nursing 4 - Health Promotion and Illness Prevention in Individuals and Populations

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc4030/

Credits: 6.0

Description: This course builds on Practice of Nursing 3 and consists of two rotations of six weeks each, one on an acute mental health care unit and the other in a Public Health unit. This course explores evidence based approaches when completing focused mental health and public health nursing assessments. Learners will follow up with effective, efficient and relevant nursing interventions. Life span factors, cultural variables and legal aspects of care frame the ethical decision-making employed in client choices for care within the acute mental health and public health settings. The aim of the mental health rotation is to prepare learners to provide competent mental health and addiction care in any health care setting, by providing a foundation for practice, at the beginning level, in a specialized mental health setting. In the public health context, learners examine the nursing process and how public health nurses promote health and prevent disease within a variety of populations. During practicum experiences, learners participate in and explore nurses' roles in public health settings. In addition, epidemiology, population health, communicable disease control, health promotion and working with specific at-risk populations are explored in relation to specific local and global health issues.

Prerequisites: BSNC 3000 and BSNC 3020 and BSNC 3030BSNC 4000‡and BSNC 4020‡and BSNC 0040‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 0040 - Nursing as a Profession

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc0040/

Credits: 

Description: This course focuses on two core BCCNM nursing practice processes of 'reflective practice and continuing professional development' and 'clinical judgement and decision-making'. The significance of reflection for effective, professional practice and development of professional knowledge in accordance with legislation, the CNA Code of Ethics, and relational capacities is explored. With guidance, students will develop reflective skills to help navigate challenge and uncertainties, to develop insight and self-awareness, and to improve self-assessment of competence to achieve learning outcomes. Students will critically reflect on their own clinical judgment process through exploration of common elements, themes, and influencing factors and develop a clinical judgment approach to support quality, safe client care. This blended course will occur using individual and group reflective learning activities that contribute towards the student's professional practice portfolio.

Prerequisites: 65% in BSNC 3000 and 65% in BSNC 3020 and S in BSNC 3030BSNC 4030‡and BSNC 4020‡and BSNC 4000‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 4000 - Nursing Knowledge 4 – Health Promotion and Illness Prevention in Individuals and Populations

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc4000/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course, delivered online and in seminars, provides learners with the necessary theoretical and conceptual foundations of both public health and mental health nursing and is integrally linked with Practice of Nursing 4. Learners critically examine models and professional standards that guide nursing practice and the care of vulnerable populations in both contexts of practice. Using a process of critical inquiry learners will explore and determine the nurse's role in public and mental health settings, with diverse populations, and in relation to local and global health issues. During the mental health component of the course, prevention, assessment and nursing interventions of individuals at risk for impaired mental health will be explored. Through the use of exemplars including mood disorders, psychosis, substance abuse and trauma, learners will gain a deeper understanding of the nurses' role in mental health. Learners will be supported by active learning strategies, case studies/simulation and group work that is linked with the context of the practicum practice.

Prerequisites: BSNC 3000 and BSNC 3020 and BSNC 3030BSNC 4030‡and BSNC 0040‡and BSNC 4020‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 4020 - Context of Nursing and Health Care 4

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc4020/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course focuses on global citizenship and population health in global contexts. With an emphasis on global health, students will develop qualities of global citizenship by applying social justice lens to international and Canadian populations facing extreme health disparities. Students will further demonstrate principles of global citizenship through analysing the role of individuals, professionals, communities, organizations, and governments in working towards global health. Ethical and cultural safety principles will be explored when considering the nursing role in advocating for diverse communities and structurally vulnerable populations. As an introduction to global health, this course will apply population health lens to explore key global issues of environmental health; water, sanitation and hygiene; nutrition, maternal and child health; communicable, and non-communicable diseases; emergency preparedness; humanitarian crises; and refugee health. The course emphasizes active learning in weekly online and in-class sessions. Students will participate through a variety of activities including the use of technology and databases, small group activities, student-led discussions, group presentations, and advocacy writing.

Prerequisites: BSNC 3000 and BSNC 3020 and BSNC 3030BSNC 4030‡and BSNC 4000‡and BSNC 0040‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

LIBS 7021 - Health Ethics*

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/libs7021/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course introduces students to contemporary issues in health ethics by examining and applying ethical theories to moral dilemmas at the clinical, professional, and organizational levels. To this end, developing competence in moral reasoning is an important goal, one that will be emphasized through the analysis of case studies that test personal, professional, and societal values.

Prerequisites: BCIT ENGL 1177, or 6 credits BCIT Communication at 1100-level or above, or 3 credits of a university/college first-year social science or humanities course.

### Term 5

BSNC 5030 - Practice of Nursing 5

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc5030/

Credits: 6.0

Description: The focus of this course is to provide safe, evidence informed based nursing care to children, youth and families with children. The course introduces the learner to the assessment and common interventions required to care for children who require acute care, childbearing families experiencing normal childbirth, as well as those families living with chronic illness. Disease/illness trajectories and their translation into clinical practice guidelines and/or standard procedures are considered in relation to their impact on providing culturally safe and sensitive, client-centered care. Clinical practice guidelines and research evidence are used to guide clinical judgments in the care of individuals/families with acute/chronic conditions. The evidence related to family care giving is a major focus and provides a basis for exploring nursing interventions with clients and families, and the inter professional nature of healthcare. Students will also explore the concepts of health promotion and risk reduction, utilizing teaching strategies to address patient and family educational needs. Learning occurs in actual clinical practice situations and includes practice with therapeutic communication skills for various developmental stages and relevant technical procedures. This course is integrally linked to Nursing Knowledge 5 and Communication in Nursing Practice 5a. An integrated and applied learning experience in a simulated/practice environment will also occur in the course.

Prerequisites: BSNC 4000 and BSNC 4020 and BSNC 4030 and BSNC 0040 and 65% in LIBS 7021BSNC 5000‡and BSNC 5055‡and BSNC 5060‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 5000 - Nursing Knowledge 5

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc5000/

Credits: 4.0

Description: This course will focus on the development of nursing knowledge and thinking processes required to plan care for families during the perinatal period and for those with growing children and youth. Specific concepts such as sexual health, nutrition, growth and development, client education as they relate to childbearing and to the family with children and youth will provide the basis for knowledge development using exemplars such as 'low risk' birth, allergies, neurodevelopmental disorders, asthma and depression. Students have the opportunity to integrate conceptual learning as they apply biopsychosocial and pharmacological principles to plan care. The course incorporates knowledge from science, humanities and other disciplines in relation to specific exemplars. In collaborative, problem-based seminars and other active learning methods, learners will actively employ critical thinking, clinical imagination and clinical reasoning processes, form clinical judgments, and emphasize priorities based on case examples. Additionally, they will apply the principles of critical inquiry to access and determine the most appropriate evidence and apply it to their nursing care planning. Learners will draw from a variety of clinical practice experiences and contexts providing real time opportunities to further develop and apply these thinking processes. This course supports and is integrally linked to the Practice of Nursing 5. This course includes an integrated and applied learning experience in a simulated/practice environment. These courses are co-facilitated by Nursing and Bioscience Faculty to integrate nursing and science concepts.

Prerequisites: BSNC 4000 and BSNC 4020 and BSNC 4030 and BSNC 0040 and 65% in LIBS 7021BSNC 5055‡and BSNC 5060‡and BSNC 5030‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 5055 - Communication in Nursing Practice 5a

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc5055/

Credits: 1.0

Description: The focus of this course is to explore communication and collaborative practice in multiple contexts where nurses work with children and childbearing families while giving appropriate consideration to relevant stages of growth and development. In addition to exploring the concepts of health promotion, risk reduction, and teaching strategies to address patient and family educational needs, this course will also continue the foundational work of therapeutic practice and professional communication from previous communication courses. Simulation, case studies, active learning strategies, as well as clinical practice from the Practice of Nursing 5 will support students’ skill development in the areas of communicating with children and childbearing families. Achievement of course competencies will also be achieved through the use of discussions, paper/project and reflection on clinical practice. Students will have the opportunity to practice interpersonal communication skills with children/teens/parents/childbearing families in conjunction with Practice of Nursing 5.

Prerequisites: BSNC 4000 and BSNC 4020 and BSNC 4030 and BSNC 0040 and 65% in LIBS 7021BSNC 5060‡and BSNC 5000‡and BSNC 5030‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 5060 - Communication in Nursing Practice 5b - Research in Nursing Practice

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc5060/

Credits: 3.0

Description: BSNC 5060 is a blended learning course that focuses on the nature and role of research in nursing practice. Learners are introduced to the concepts that are foundational to qualitative and quantitative research. The role of BSN nurses as consumers and critics of nursing research is developed with an emphasis on research literacy. Learners will critique research articles relevant to healthcare. By determining the quality and rigor of research, learners work towards identifying evidence that supports safe, high quality nursing care – the hallmark of evidence-informed nursing practice. Learners are exposed to nursing research, their sources and how they are developed. The significance of informing nursing care with evidence is deliberate. Learners consider the value and contribution of nursing scholarship to the creation of credible evidence for clinical judgment and nursing practice, client safety, and quality improvement in healthcare. Learners will critically analyze the nature and hierarchy of evidence, the structure of a research design and how evidence contributes to the development of best practice guidelines for nursing practice.

Prerequisites: BSNC 4000 and BSNC 4020 and BSNC 4030 and BSNC 0040 and 65% in LIBS 7021BSNC 5030‡and BSNC 5055‡and BSNC 5000‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

### Term 6

BSNC 6030 - Practice of Nursing 6

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc6030/

Credits: 6.0

Description: This course builds upon all previous Practice of Nursing courses, with a focus on clients facing complex and/or unstable health challenges in acute care settings. It includes a rotation in an acute medical/surgical setting, emphasizing clinical reasoning as essential for planning and delivering safe, high-quality care. Factors such as life span considerations, cultural diversity, and legal aspects of care form the framework for ethical decision-making in client care choices within the acute medical/surgical setting. The course also incorporates integrated and applied learning experiences in simulated and real-world practice environments.

Prerequisites: BSNC 5000 and BSNC 5060 and BSNC 5030 and BSNC 5055BSNC 6000‡and BSNC 6020‡and BSNC 6055‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 6000 - Nursing Knowledge 6

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc6000/

Credits: 4.0

Description: This course will focus on selected theory related to adult clients experiencing acute physiological health challenges. Clients will present with complex medical conditions and surgical interventions in acute care settings. This course will prepare learners to care for the more complex clients by building on pathophysiological knowledge and pharmacology learned in previous courses. The course will emphasize the holistic care of the client and family through individual and group work. There will be an emphasis on application of knowledge to practice through exploration of evolving case studies. Learners will use nursing frameworks to support decision-making, prioritizing and planning of client care.

Prerequisites: BSNC 5000 and BSNC 5060 and BSNC 5030 and BSNC 5055BSNC 6055‡and BSNC 6030‡and BSNC 6020‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 6020 - Context of Nursing and Healthcare 6

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc6020/

Credits: 4.0

Description: This course focuses on leadership & nursing ethics. This course introduces learners to the concept of leadership and ethical decision-making models. The focus of the course is the development of leadership abilities required for nursing practice. Learners examine contemporary leadership models and perspectives related to leadership, leaders, and followers. Additionally, learners explore the concepts of power, influence, and empowerment as they relate to quality healthcare and leadership, and learning to thrive in the ever-evolving healthcare environment. Exemplars pertaining to quality assurance and discipline such as continuing competence, professional conduct, and formal complaint and resolution processes will be explored. The Canadian legal system, professional accountability and negligence, and nurses in court will be examined. Learning will occur using active learning strategies. Case studies will explore the leadership of quality initiatives in nursing practice including organizational change, innovation, and factors contributing to quality practice environments, quality healthcare, and client safety.

Prerequisites: BSNC 5000 and BSNC 5060 and BSNC 5030 and BSNC 5055BSNC 6030‡and BSNC 6055‡and BSNC 6000‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 6055 - Communication in Nursing Practice 6

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc6055/

Credits: 2.0

Description: This course builds on the concepts of relational practice covered in previous communication courses. The focus of this course is on effectively communicating with the individual client in the context of providing nursing care in acute medical/surgical settings. Learners will explore the "lived experience" of clients and practice the skills of interpersonal communication. Specific topics of focus include emotional intelligence; mindfulness; language and stigma; defusing anger and hostility; conflict, empowerment and power; negotiation; manipulation; and reluctance and resistance. Additionally, learners will identify and discuss the impact of personal values and biases on the provision of client care. Learning will occur using active learning strategies.

Prerequisites: BSNC 5000 and BSNC 5060 and BSNC 5030 and BSNC 5055BSNC 6020‡and BSNC 6000‡and BSNC 6030‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

### Term 7

BSNC 7030 - Practice of Nursing 7

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc7030/

Credits: 6.0

Description: This course builds on Practice of Nursing 6, focusing on adult and older adult clients experiencing complex and chronic health challenges through the lens of continuum of care. Learners' clinical reasoning and clinical judgment increases in depth, and with minimal guidance, demonstrated through increasingly accurate and refined health assessments, and identification and prioritization of multiple client needs. Through development and strengthening of effective time management skills, including organization, prioritization, and delegation, learners develop therapeutic relationships with individuals and families, and communicate and collaborate effectively with the health care team to ensure safe, appropriate and timely client care. Students continue to evolve their professional identity in relation to becoming a registered nurse and exhibit autonomous scope of practice by self-assessing strengths and needs to take appropriate actions to meet course competencies. This course includes an integrated and applied learning experience in a simulated/practice environment.

Prerequisites: BSNC 6000 and BSNC 6020 and BSNC 6030 and BSNC 6055BSNC 7055‡and BSNC 7020‡and BSNC 7000‡(‡must be taken concurrently)a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory 1 Course‡ (‡ must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 7000 - Nursing Knowledge 7

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc7000/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This blended course focuses on promoting synthesis of nursing knowledge with clinical reasoning and reflective processes to enable learners to recognize and respond to context-dependent clinical situations across the continuum of care. Increased emphasis is placed on integration and application of nursing therapeutics and pharmacological approaches, and advanced nursing skills of prioritization and delegation. Learners have opportunities to apply clinical judgment to prioritization frameworks and to practice prioritization and delegation of care for multiple clients across the lifespan. Learning occurs through review of complex cases where students are required to apply and articulate their critical reasoning through group process and communicate client needs in a timely, safe, and effective manner. This course is intended to assist learners in structuring and focusing their own specific knowledge and theory review needs. It does not provide an in-depth content review for all content areas provided in previous nursing knowledge courses.

Prerequisites: BSNC 6000 and BSNC 6020 and BSNC 6030 and BSNC 6055BSNC 7020‡and BSNC 7030‡and BSNC 7055‡(‡must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 7020 - Context of Nursing and Healthcare 7

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc7020/

Credits: 1.0

Description: This blended course builds on foundations established from previous context of health care courses and provides learners with the opportunity to actively consider and build their capacity for transition to new graduate nurse (NGN) practice. Learners will critically reflect on and self-assess practice readiness and the roles and responsibilities of NGNs and discuss the challenges and opportunities with transitioning from student nurse to NGN. Completion of critical reflections, self-assessments, and development of a transition to practice plan supports practice readiness and achievement of entry-level competencies. This work will serve as preparation for the final terms of the program.

Prerequisites: BSNC 6000 and BSNC 6020 and BSNC 6030 and BSNC 6055BSNC 7000‡and BSNC 7055‡and BSNC 7030‡(‡must be taken concurrently)a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory 1 Course‡ (‡ must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 7055 - Communication in Nursing Practice 7

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc7055/

Credits: 2.0

Description: This blended course provides learners with an overview of the palliative approach to care. Knowledge of the palliative approach and relational inquiry will be applied to the care of individuals, families, and caregivers experiencing life-limiting illness across diverse contexts of care. Learners will have opportunities to demonstrate appropriate theoretical and advanced communication strategies during care encounters and provide relevant resources, information, and services in a manner appropriate for the client. Exploration of personal biases, values, and perspectives with respect to palliative care, ethical issues, and professional nursing practice occurs throughout the course. Students will gain an understanding of the nurse's role with respect to medical assistance in dying (MAiD), advanced care planning and goals of care conversations, and end-of-life symptom assessment and management. Learners will examine relevant theories, methods, and research as well as participate in interactive activities, reflective exercises, discussions and practice experiences designed to deepen and consolidate their advanced relational, communication, and collaboration skills in preparation for meeting entry-to-practice competencies.

Prerequisites: BSNC 6000 and BSNC 6020 and BSNC 6030 and BSNC 6055BSNC 7030‡and BSNC 7020‡and BSNC 7000‡(‡must be taken concurrently)a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory 1 Course‡ (‡ must be taken concurrently)

### Term 8

BSNC 8030 - Practice of Nursing 8

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc8030/

Credits: 7.0

Description: Building on BSNC 6030 and BSNC 7030, this course further develops and consolidates the learner’s knowledge base, practice capacity and confidence to provide safe and appropriate nursing care to more complex clients in acute care settings. This course integrates a tutorial directed study that focuses on clinical decision making and guides the learner to apply this learning to the practice environment. The emphasis will also be on developing practice capacity and independent decision making through selection of specific client assignments. Learners will develop consistency with appropriately focused assessments, effective and efficient nursing interventions, time management strategies and evaluation of client responses to their nursing care. Prioritizing care needs and client teaching will also be emphasized. The latter half of the clinical experience is the Developing Independent Practice Experience. Learners will work more closely with their most responsible nurse (MRN) and will continue to engage with their clinical instructor to meet their learning needs. There will be a greater emphasis on independent decision making while the learner partners more with their MRN and assumes more of the role of the nurse. This experience will help promote transition to preceptorship in Term 9. This course includes an applied learning experience in a simulated environment.

Prerequisites: BSNC 7000 and BSNC 7020 and BSNC 7030 and BSNC 7055BSNC 8020‡and BSNC 8055‡(‡must be taken concurrently)Successful completion of 2-3 credits in a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory Course, and current enrollment in a 2-3 credit BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory Course.

BSNC 8020 - Nursing and Health Care

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc8020/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course focuses on healthcare politics and quality improvement (QI). Learners will explore the concepts and processes of QI and examines the importance of QI processes in improving healthcare. This is a blended course that provides opportunities for learners to examine competing priorities, power dynamics, and influential barriers as forces within the healthcare system that affect the quality of healthcare. Additionally learners will consider how political environments, legislation and health policy impact quality improvement in healthcare organizations locally and globally. Learners explore how professional nursing organizations influence health policy and how nurses can act to address local and global health issues. Subsequently, learners will apply the QI process. They will identify a clinically relevant QI project to address in a practice setting, consider organizational change theory and it’s applicability to their planned initiative, form teams that create and plan a project that contributes to improved care and client outcomes, and implement their quality improvement project. The QI project will be considered within the context of interprofessional healthcare and from a systems perspective. Learners will apply collaborative teamwork skills and systems thinking. Learners will develop knowledge and skills in the science of quality improvement and take action to improve the quality of care for clients.

Prerequisites: BSNC 7000 and BSNC 7020 and BSNC 7030 and BSNC 7055BSNC 8055‡and BSNC 8030‡(‡must be taken concurrently)75% in a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory 1 Course and a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory 2 Course‡ (‡ must be taken concurrently)

BSNC 8055 - Communication in Nursing Practice 8

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc8055/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course focuses on the implementation of nursing research by further developing the learner’s ability to locate and critically appraise nursing research, evaluate its contribution to knowledge generation, and developing the learner’s capacity for scholarly dialogue, presentation and dissemination of work. Learners will critically analyze qualitative and quantitative research design and examine studies to determine their validity, reliability, and applicability to nursing practice. Quantitative research examination includes exploring common statistical analysis methods and possible conclusions. This is a blended course that provides opportunities for learners to engage in critical inquiry, reflective skepticism and analytical reasoning. Learners will explore the link between nursing research, theory and practice through the process of knowledge translation as they evaluate the implementation of research evidence in practice through the creation of best practice guidelines, procedures or policies related to an area of interest. Learners will then demonstrate their developing scholarship by disseminating their work.

Prerequisites: BSNC 7000 and BSNC 7020 and BSNC 7030 and BSNC 7055BSNC 8020‡and BSNC 8030‡(‡must be taken concurrently)75% in a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory 1 Course and a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory 2 Course‡ (‡ must be taken concurrently)

### Term 9

BSNC 8100 - Practice of Nursing 9 Preceptorship

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/bsnc8100/

Credits: 18.0

Description: This course, in the context of a clinical preceptorship, provides the learner with the opportunity to synthesize and integrate the nursing knowledge and skills acquired through all previous coursework into their practice. With increasing independence and autonomy, learners demonstrate the ability to implement evidence informed practice and apply clinical reasoning to diverse client situations of increasing acuity and/or complexity. The emphasis is on consolidation of practice capacity while safely managing client assignment. In accordance with the BCCNM Professional Standards for Registered Nurses and Nurse Practitioners, and, Competencies in the Context of Entry Level Registered Nurse Practice in British Columbia, learners are building towards transition to licensed practice. Practicum placements include various settings in a variety of institutions throughout the Lower Mainland, possibly remote locations in British Columbia. Learners are paired with an agency Registered Nurse and work their assigned shifts. Furthermore, this final preceptorship practicum provides learners with an introduction to a focus of practice and/or a more extensive experience in medical/surgical nursing. Focus of practice settings are varied and may include perinatal, emergency, pediatrics, neonatal, perioperative, nephrology, mental health, high acuity, primary care or community. Building on the consolidation and nursing practice capacity established in Practice of Nursing 8, emphasis is placed on integrating the depth of knowledge, skills, attitudes, and judgments required for the care of diverse and complex client assignments as preparation for transition to licensed practice. There is a focus on developing teamwork and leadership capacities. Upon successful completion, learners will meet the BCCNM Competencies in the Context of Entry Level Registered Nurse Practice in British Columbia.

Prerequisites: BSNC 8030 and BSNC 8055 and BSNC 8020Successful completion of at least 6 credits in a BCIT Specialty Nursing Theory Courses

### *Specialty Nursing Electives

NSCC 7120 - Critical Care Nursing Theory 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nscc7120/

Credits: 4.0

Description: This introductory course establishes the core principles of critical care nursing, providing a strong foundation for practice in this fast-paced and complex environment. It begins with an exploration of key factors influencing clinical decision-making, including the specialized role of critical care nurses, the complexities of critical illness, the depth of knowledge required to understand each patient’s condition, and the lived experiences of both patients and healthcare professionals within the field. Learners will be introduced to the Oxygen Supply and Demand Framework (OSDF), and a structured approach that supports systematic assessment and clinical reasoning. By emphasizing the balance between oxygen supply and demand, the OSDF helps organize assessment findings and strengthens clinical judgment—essential skills for managing critically ill patients. Building on this foundation, the course advances into arterial blood gas analysis and hemodynamic assessment, equipping learners with the skills needed to interpret and respond to increasingly complex patient needs.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSCC 7150 - Dysrhythmia Interpretation and Management

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nscc7150/

Credits: 2.0

Description: This course supports the development of fundamental knowledge required to systematically analyze and interpret basic cardiac dysrhythmias. Learners will explore myocardial electrophysiology in relation to cardiac monitoring and develop a systematic approach to dysrhythmia analysis and interpretation. Learners will also consider the predisposing factors of all conduction defects and the consequences of dysrhythmias to both systemic and myocardial oxygen supply and demand. Additionally, interventions for dysrhythmias are also discussed. Lastly, the significance of dysrhythmia analysis, interpretation, and management to critical care nursing practice will be explored. Though this course is conducted within the specific context of critical care nursing practice, it is also suitable for other nurses or qualified health professionals requiring this skill. If you are not a registered nurse or a student nurse in the final years of your BSN program, you must consult the Critical Care Nursing Program Head before registration. Health professionals who are not nurses may register for this course with the approval of the Critical Care Nursing Specialty Program Head. If you are registering in the NSCC, NSHA or NSER nursing program, follow the program course matrix. Program Head approval is required to take NSCC 7150 as a co-requisite with NSCC 7120, NSCC 7220, NSHA 7100, or NSER 7110. To be successful in the course, learners must achieve 75% or higher on each evaluative component in the course.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSER 7110 - Emergency Nursing Theory 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nser7110/

Credits: 4.0

Description: Introduces emergency nursing and focuses on client perspectives of care in emergency settings. Provides opportunities to explore the concept of partnership with clients, families, and health care professionals in a time limited, changing environment. Introduces emergency skills such as assessment, urgency determination, and diagnostic reasoning. Provides opportunities to work through common, less complex emergency client presentations in the form of case studies, identifying concepts key to emergency nursing. Emphasizes examination of pathophysiology, assessment and decision-making. Students are given opportunities to work both individually and collaboratively, and will be expected to participate in group activities throughout this course.

Prerequisites: 75% in NSCC 7150

NSHA 7100 - High Acuity Specialty Nursing Theory 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nsha7100/

Credits: 4.0

Description: The purpose of this course is to introduce participants to the high acuity nursing specialty and the role of the high acuity nurse. The participants will focus on expanding their ability to think critically and engage in participatory relationships; examine the concept of health and explore their understanding of health in order to promote health for high acuity patients and families. The participants will explore the lived experience of an acute illness (e.g. COPD and respiratory insufficiency) while applying the theory of oxygen supply and demand, comprehensive assessments, and ethical clinical decision-making within the high acuity nursing practice environment.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSHA 7120 - Advanced Medical/Surgical

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nsha7120/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course is designed to help you consolidate the theory learned in NSHA 7050 or NSHA 7100 by providing the opportunity to apply concepts to cases in a virtual clinical setting. The course prepares you to assess people in a comprehensive and focused manner and to use the oxygen supply and demand framework to make informed clinical decisions. Specifically, you are applying and integrating nursing knowledge to provide care for acutely ill patients experiencing selected health problems. You have the opportunity to further develop your comprehensive assessment abilities, monitoring skills and clinical decision-making. You are also given the ability to work collaboratively to provide safe, competent and ethical nursing care.

Prerequisites: 75% in NSHA 7050 or 75% in NSHA 7100

NSNE 7100 - Neonatal Theory 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nsne7100/

Credits: 3.0

Description: Healthy Childbearing Experiences and the Newborn is the combined introductory theory course of the Perinatal and Neonatal Nursing Specialty Programs. This course explores a number of concepts that are foundational to the practice of perinatal and neonatal nursing and healthy childbearing experiences. Within the context of building partnerships, learners are exposed to holistic caring for childbearing women, their fetuses and newborns, and their families.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSNE 7200 - Neonatal Theory 2

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nsne7200/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course builds on the concepts presented in NSNE 7100. Specifically, the relationship among infant vulnerability, pathophysiology, and assessment will be explored. A case study format will be used to address common health challenges that increase infant vulnerability in preterm, late preterm, term and post-term infants. Concepts of family-centered care, infant transition, hypoxia, and multi-system organ effects will be examined throughout the course.

Prerequisites: 75% in NSNE 7100

NSNN 7200 - Nephrology Nursing Theory 1: Introduction

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nsnn7200/

Credits: 3.0

Description: Focuses on the experience of the individual with end stage renal disease. Links pathophysiology of renal disease and treatment options to the lived experience of various individuals. Provides an understanding of the physiological, psychological and social impact of renal disease as it varies over the life span and with individuals.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSNN 7400 - Nephrology  Nursing Theory 2: Introduction to Dialysis Nursing

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nsnn7400/

Credits: 3.0

Description: Focuses on the experience of the individual on dialysis. Provides an understanding of the principles of hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis, the complications of dialysis and the lived experience of various individuals to develop the nursing role in the management of dialysis.

Prerequisites: 75% in NSNN 7200

NSPE 7100 - Pediatric Theory 1

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nspe7100/

Credits: 3.0

Description: An introduction to the nursing specialty of pediatric nursing, this course focuses on characteristics of children and families which influence how they interpret and respond to life events and to their environments, and shapes how nurses respond to and interact with them. The overall intent of this course is to provide opportunity for you to increase your understanding of pediatric nursing practice as you consider some critical issues related to children and childhood, factors that influence children’s health, pediatric assessment and delivery of health care to children. Along with a focus on developmental assessment we will also look at medication safety, nutrition, prevention of infectious diseases within the context of these developmental stages. This course introduces you to the concept of oxygen supply and demand and the significance of this knowledge for the provision on optimal care. Finally this course also introduces the process of comprehensive pediatric assessment as a means of understanding the patients experience and the meaning they attach to these experiences.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSPE 7200 - Pediatric Theory 2

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nspe7200/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This second required theory course in the Pediatric Nursing Specialty builds on NSPE 7100: Pediatric Nursing Theory 1. In NSPE 7100 you were introduced to the concept of comprehensive pediatric assessment. In this course you will build on what you learned and will have the opportunity to apply the concepts to patient based case studies, further enhancing your ability to think critically about your assessment findings. As well as a comprehensive assessment, each case study will focus on a particular body system. You will have the opportunity to complete focused assessments based on the presenting health challenges in the case study. Specifically, these modules address; fever and sepsis, dehydration, shock, respiratory distress, developmental delay and autism, UTI, neurological concerns, cardiac defects and concerns, orthopaedics, pain management, mental health, bullying, nutrition, aboriginal health and dermatology. Each case explores developmental, family and assessment issues. You will also have the opportunity to incorporate the oxygen supply and demand framework into your assessment. Additionally this course will provide you with the opportunity incorporate the concepts of; partnership with families, growth and development, social determinants of health, and the effects of stress on children and families. The children in the modules of this course face health challenges that bring them into contact with nurses. We will use the information about these health challenges to examine the effects on the child, and the role of the nurse in the care of the child and family.

Prerequisites: 75% in NSPE 7100

NSPN 7100 - Perinatal Nursing Theory 1 - Healthy Childbearing Experiences & The Newborn

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nspn7100/

Credits: 3.0

Description: Healthy Childbearing Experiences and The Newborn, is the combined introductory theory course of the Perinatal and Neonatal Nursing Specialty Programs. This course explores a number of concepts that are foundational to the practice of both perinatal and neonatal nursing, and healthy childbearing experiences. Within the context of building partnerships, learners are exposed to holistic caring for childbearing women, their fetuses and newborns, and their families.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSPN 7150 - The Breastfeeding  Experience

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nspn7150/

Credits: 3.0

Description: The Breastfeeding Experience course explores foundational concepts for healthcare providers who support mothers, newborns and their families through the breastfeeding continuum. This is a theory-only course that will enable students to acquire the knowledge required by health care providers to support mother/infant dyads in a successful breastfeeding experience. This 3 credit course may be used for those seeking International Board Certified Lactation Consultants (IBCLC) certification or recertification: 1) For certification through pathways 1 and 3 ONLY; this course is equivalent to 45 education hours that may be used as part of the total 90 education hours required. 2) For recertification; this course has been recognized by IBCLC for 45 L-CERPs. Please note that those challenging this course will not receive IBCLC L-CERPs. The IBCLC L-CERPs will be reserved for those who complete the whole course.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSPO 7100 - Perioperative Theory 1: Developing Perioperative Partnerships

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nspo7100/

Credits: 3.0

Description: In this course, we start out by considering what makes perioperative nursing distinctive from other areas of nursing. We discuss what caring looks like in the perioperative area, and how it is enacted by perioperative nurses. You will learn about the complementary scrub and circulating nursing roles, and their related activities. You will have the opportunity to consider how professional scope of practice will guide your nursing activities in this setting. We then move to patient-centered care by looking at strategies for how the nurse can seek to understand the patient’s individual perioperative experience using framing concepts of vulnerability and dignity. You’ll consider how to provide ethical perioperative care based in relational practice, and how to advocate for patients and families. We will relate the concept of health to perioperative patients, and reflect on how the perioperative nurse promotes health. You will learn about environmental and cultural factors unique to the perioperative setting, and how these factors affect team function, patient care, and the patient’s lived experience. You will be introduced to the importance of self-care in this setting. We will look at how partnership is enacted in this specialty area. You will consider communication and interprofessional collaboration as they relate to perioperative patients and teams. We take an in-depth look at the CIHC National Interprofessional Competency Framework to help you think about how perioperative teams can work together effectively to promote safe patient care and a culture of safety. The modules that focus on clinical decision-making and the Situated Clinical Decision-making Framework are important to help you develop your perioperative nursing foundational knowledge. You will consider case study applications of the Framework in preparation for future perioperative theory and clinical learning. We conclude the course with how you can prepare for the transition from your current area of nursing practice to perioperative nursing.

Prerequisites: No prerequisites are required for this course.

NSPO 7250 - Perioperative Theory 2: The Nurse in the Scrub Role

Outline URL: https://www.bcit.ca/outlines/nspo7250/

Credits: 3.0

Description: This course builds on the concepts and frameworks presented in NSPO 7100. The focus is on how perioperative nurses provide care in the scrub role for patients undergoing common, less complex surgeries. Participants will continue learning about the key concepts of caring, clinical decision-making, safety, aseptic technique, and surgical conscience. Learners will consider how these concepts are used to maintain a safe and supportive perioperative environment for patients and team members. The course introduces theory related to the development of basic perioperative scrub nurse skills in preparation for clinical learning. Clinical decision-making frameworks that guide practice in the scrub role are introduced and reviewed. Participants will build on nursing knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and disease processes to deepen their understanding of perioperative nursing care in the scrub role. Learners will examine ways of developing collaborative relationships with patients, colleagues, instructors, and perioperative team members.

Prerequisites: 75% in NSPO 7100



## Entrance Requirements

introduction

British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives (BCCNM) Registration Requirements Once you graduate from the Bachelor of Science in Nursing program, you must apply for registration as a Registered Nurse with the BCCNM to be eligible for employment. To register you must meet the BCCNM Competencies and Standards for Entry-Level Registered Nurse Practice in British Columbia. It is important that you are aware of these prior to applying for admission to the Nursing program. These requirements are described on the BCCNM’s Website at the following links: If you’re a student who requires accommodations due to a disability, then contact BCIT’s Accessibility Services .

Application processing

This program is open to applications: We recommend that you apply early . All supporting documents must be submitted by the application deadline. Indigenous applicants : Read about Indigenous student support available for the Nursing program. January intake: June 1st* to July 15th* April intake: October 1st* to November 15th* September intake: February 1st* to March 15th*

Entrance requirements

BCIT does not guarantee admission to applicants who meet the minimum requirements. Obtaining a seat in the Nursing program is competitive. The Nursing program mandate is to select those applicants deemed to have the best opportunity for success. The Nursing program does not maintain a waitlist into future intakes. Competitive Entry: Two-step process Step 1: Meet the following entrance requirements * View acceptable equivalent courses [PDF] All Academic Foundations courses must be completed prior to application. Midterm grades are not accepted. Only official transcripts are to be submitted with your online application. An official BCIT transcript is not required. Applicants who have completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand will require a comprehensive evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES) . Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered. These reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations. Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements Step 2: Conditionally selected applicants If you have been conditionally accepted to BCIT, you will be notified and the following information will be required in order to be accepted into the program: Criminal Record Check [PDF] Immunization Records Once these and any other outstanding conditions have been met, you will receive notification of your full acceptance. English language proficiency: Category 2 – English Studies 12 (67%) or equivalent Math: one of the following: Pre-Calculus 11 (73%) or 12 (67%) or Foundations of Math 11 (73%) or 12 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or MATH 0007 (73%) Pre-Calculus 11 (73%) or 12 (67%) or Foundations of Math 11 (73%) or 12 (73%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or MATH 0007 (73%) Chemistry 11 (73%) Academic Foundations: 18.0 post-secondary credits with a minimum of 67% in each of the following courses: ENGL 1177 – Academic Writing or equivalent* (3.0 credits) Note: ENGL 1177 may also be used to satisfy the English language proficiency. BHSC 1200 – Human Anatomy and Physiology or equivalent*, completed within the past three years (6.0 credits) PSYC 1101 – Introductory Psychology 1 or equivalent* (3.0 credits) General Education [PDF] electives at a 100-level minimum in at least two different academic disciplines (6.0 credits) * View acceptable equivalent courses [PDF] All Academic Foundations courses must be completed prior to application. Midterm grades are not accepted. Only official transcripts are to be submitted with your online application. An official BCIT transcript is not required. ENGL 1177 – Academic Writing or equivalent* (3.0 credits) Note: ENGL 1177 may also be used to satisfy the English language proficiency. BHSC 1200 – Human Anatomy and Physiology or equivalent*, completed within the past three years (6.0 credits) PSYC 1101 – Introductory Psychology 1 or equivalent* (3.0 credits) General Education [PDF] electives at a 100-level minimum in at least two different academic disciplines (6.0 credits) Complete the following form for submission with your online application: Mandatory Applicant Questionnaire [PDF] : This form will be used with other entrance requirements in the competitive selection for the program. Mandatory Applicant Questionnaire [PDF] : This form will be used with other entrance requirements in the competitive selection for the program. Criminal Record Check [PDF] Immunization Records Complete the Immunization Review Form available on the BCIT Student Health Services website and submit directly to the Student Health Services address on the form. The due date for this form is in your acceptance letter. Contact Student Health Services at 604-432-8843 if you require information regarding immunizations. If you receive immunizations from BCIT Student Health Services, you will need to upload the immunization record, that is emailed to you, to your Health Gateway profile . If you are not able to locate your record, please email nurses@bcit.ca with your name, DOB, and student ID number to request it. Complete the Immunization Review Form available on the BCIT Student Health Services website and submit directly to the Student Health Services address on the form. The due date for this form is in your acceptance letter. Contact Student Health Services at 604-432-8843 if you require information regarding immunizations. If you receive immunizations from BCIT Student Health Services, you will need to upload the immunization record, that is emailed to you, to your Health Gateway profile . If you are not able to locate your record, please email nurses@bcit.ca with your name, DOB, and student ID number to request it.

Clinical requirements

Note: All health care workers who come into contact with patients at publicly funded health care facilities or in the community, including at long-term care facilities, must have the influenza vaccine or wear a mask during flu season. This policy affects all students who will be entering a clinical setting. As such, you will be required to provide proof of your immunization or agree to wear a mask at all times through the flu season prior to being placed in your clinical studies. Face Respirator Fit Testing A face piece respiratory fit test may be required before students are permitted to enter the clinical practicum. Upon successful completion of the fit test, the original certificate must be presented to the program and annual re-fitting is required. Students are expected to carry their certificate with them at all times during their practicum. For the Respirator Fit Testing, fit testing with a N95 respirator (1860, 1860s, or 1870) is required and must be performed, in accordance with CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-02. Fit Testing must also include inspection, cleaning, maintenance, and storage of protective equipment. Students will be given specific instructions in preparation for their fit testing by the provider they choose. CPR - BLS (HCP) Current Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) - Basic Life Support for Health Care Providers (HCP). Certificate must be submitted prior to the first day of term 1 and be recertified annually.. Certifications from any of the following agencies are accepted: Lifesaving Society, Red Cross, Heart & Stroke Foundation, St Johns Ambulance, and the Canadian Ski Patrol.

International applicants

This program is not available to international students. View available programs .

Apply to program

To submit your application: Learn more about how to apply Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements. Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files . Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.

Scheduled Intakes

January, April and September each year.

myCommunication

Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online. You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.



## Costs & Supplies

Tuition fees

Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program. For more information on full-time tuition fees, visit Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees .

Books & supplies

Costs of the Nursing program include education materials, CPR certification, criminal record check, annual face respirator fit testing, uniforms, shoes, stethoscope, blood pressure cuff, copying, stationary, penlight, and transportation expenses. Information on obtaining a criminal record check and the fees involved will be mailed to students upon acceptance. These are general estimated costs and subject to change. Students may incur additional expenses. *Education materials will include electronic and text materials.

Financial assistance

Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .



## Program Details

introduction

The program prepares highly skilled, practice-ready graduates eligible for nurse registration. Upon completion of the program, graduates are eligible to write the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX). The Bachelor of Science in Nursing program is committed to educating and equipping learners to graduate and launch successful careers in nursing. To support this aim, the BSN program emphasizes the development of professionalism, communication, professional growth, reasoning and reflection, creative leadership, facilitation skills, and technical skills. Courses are offered in a variety of formats including lecture, laboratory, small group work, online, and clinical experiences. Learning opportunities in hospitals include clinical practice with acutely ill seniors, adults, children, and families. Learning opportunities in community health include clinical practice in public health, home care and other community health agencies. The clinical practice experience can be during the day, evening or night shift, including weekends and holidays. The program uses self-directed learning, small group learning, and a scrambled classroom teaching learning strategy, to help students develop the skills required in the health-care system. Self-directed learning is a method that encourages students to take charge of their learning by identifying learning needs, implementing strategies to meet these learning needs, and evaluating progress toward learning. These skills prepare students for lifelong learning and professional growth. Small group learning is an approach in which students work in groups of four to twelve people to learn material and discuss course issues. This approach also develops communication and facilitation skills. A scrambled classroom is a combination of short bursts of lecture interspersed with active learning strategies. The effectiveness of this teaching learning strategy is dependent on students completing readings and pre-class work. Active learning contextualizes knowledge and provides an opportunity for learners to build on and apply knowledge through active engagement with content, peers and the instructor, providing learners with the skills and competencies required for safe patient care within a complex health care system. One key nursing competency this teaching methodology promotes is collaboration and teamwork. Additionally, completing prep work is critical to the success of a practice profession. Aboriginal applicants: Read about Indigenous student support available for the Nursing program. International applicants: This program does not accept applications from international students. View programs that do

Program length



Grading

The minimum passing grade for all theory courses in this program is 65 per cent.

Program delivery

In person: This program is delivered on campus.

Program location

Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC



## Graduating & Jobs

introduction

Recruiters know BCIT Nursing graduates succeed. Our students graduate with the expertise and capabilities to work in a multitude of healthcare settings across BC. Grads are required to write the National Council Licensure Examinations for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) to earn their Registered Nurse (RN) designation for licensure. The designation has yearly renewal fees and quality assurance guidelines. Visit the British Columbia College of Nurses and Midwives (BCCNM) for more information on registration and renewal, competencies, and standards. We recommend that you’re aware of these standards prior to applying to the program. Registered nurses work in a variety of hospitals and community health settings. Careers usually start with casual positions in acute care agencies on a medical and surgical ward. Some graduates are hired to work in public health, pediatrics, obstetrics, and emergency nursing positions. Learn more about the work we do. Visit the BC Nurses’ Union for information on salary. Visit the Nurses and Nurse Practitioners of BC (NNPBC) for current news on the profession. Students take two specialty nursing courses as part of their BSN degree. These two courses may be applied toward completing one of BCIT’s specialty nursing advanced certificate programs after they graduate. Grads can also choose to complete a Master of Science in Nursing or PhD program through other institutions.

Graduate employment outcomes

The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2022-2024 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2021-2023 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website. To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser. Nursing
