URL: https://www.bcit.ca/programs/strategic-human-resources-management-diploma-full-time-6290dipma/
Title: Strategic Human Resources Management
Type: Program

================================================================================

## Strategic Human Resources Management
Diploma Full-time School of Business + Media
## Overview
The Strategic Human Resources Management Diploma provides essential HR expertise, covering employment relationship management, conflict resolution, employment law, and talent acquisition. Graduates qualify for the Chartered Professional in Human Resources (CPHR) designation program, with potential exemptions from the National Knowledge Exam (NKE).
Note: This program has replaced the Human Resource Management Diploma program. Please visit the Entrance Requirements page to apply.
Delivery: in person. See details .
### About the program
The Diploma in Strategic Human Resources Management curriculum equips graduates with the knowledge, skills, and orientation needed to position HR as a critical business function that drives organizational success. This program aims to transform HR students into strategic leaders who align people strategies with business objectives, influence decision-making, navigate complex workplace challenges, and create a meaningful organizational impact. Graduates qualify for the Chartered Professional in Human Resources (CPHR) designation program, with potential exemptions from the National Knowledge Exam (NKE).
Upon successful completion of the Diploma in Strategic Human Resources Management, the student will be able to:
- Align HR strategies with business goals and formulate data-driven recommendations for organizational growth and success.
- Apply financial principles, business operations knowledge, and key performance metrics to HR decisions, enhancing organizational outcomes such as profitability and growth.
- Effectively communicate HR’s value to senior leaders and stakeholders, utilizing persuasive strategies and business-aligned messaging to advocate for HR initiatives that drive organizational change.
- Develop strategic approaches aligned with employee needs and business priorities by critically assessing complex HR challenges, proposing innovative solutions, and making data-driven decisions.
- Create organizational change strategies using HR techniques that ensure business continuity and employee engagement during restructuring and cultural transformation.
- Develop management strategies that drive high-performance cultures by applying leadership development tools, engagement strategies, and recognition programs to enhance organizational success.
- Assess real-world legal scenarios, navigate employee relations issues, and apply best practices to mitigate organizational risk based on employment regulations, compliance risks, and HR governance structures.
- Utilize HR analytics, AI, and HRIS technology to analyze HR data, measure workforce trends, optimize HR processes, enhance talent management, and make strategic recommendations.
- Design measurable strategies that drive business performance and create inclusive workplace cultures.
Graduates can immediately apply their human resource skills in numerous industries. BCIT prepares graduates to deliver the best practices in human resources.
### Business Consulting Project
Strategic Human Resources Management students undertake a 10-week Business Consulting Project in their final term. Students work in groups of 2-3 and spend two days a week developing a change management solution to a real human resource challenge for a company. The student teams collect and analyze data, create recommendations, and present their findings to senior management.
### Professional HR designation
BCIT Diploma in Strategic Human Resources Management graduates are eligible to enter the Chartered Professional in Human Resources (CPHR) designation program, which is a nationally recognized level of achievement within the field of human resources. Based on successful completion, graduates are eligible to challenge the professional certification requirements of the CPHR National Knowledge Exam (NKE), the first step in earning a CPHR professional certification. BCIT HR students may join as student members of the CPHR (BC & Yukon).
### HR jobs & careers
Graduates of the Diploma in Strategic Human Resources Management program have a strong foundation in all areas of practical human resource management and can apply these skills in a wide variety of job opportunities, such as Talent Acquisition Specialist, Compensation Analyst, HR Coordinator, Human Resources Analyst, Human Resources Generalist, and People & Culture Coordinator.
## Entrance Requirements
### Application processing
Applications are accepted during the following periods:
Opening (9:00 am) | Deadline (11:59 pm)
October 1st* | Domestic students: September 1st* International students: July 2nd*
Intake may fill before the deadline.
### Entrance requirements
This program has a two-step admission process. Applicants must meet all entrance requirements and will be accepted on a first-qualified basis as long as space remains.
Step 1: Pre-entry assessment
Submit your completed pre-entry assessment form [PDF] to the David_Berrington@bcit.ca for review. You may be requested to meet with the program area as part of the pre-assessment process. Once your pre-entry assessment form has been signed by the program area, you can upload it and submit your online application.
Step 2: Submit your application and meet the following entrance requirements
- English language proficiency: Category 1 – English Studies 12 (73%) or equivalent
- Math: one of the following: Pre-Calculus 11 (67%) or Foundations of Math 11 (67%) or Workplace Math 11 (67%) or Other acceptable BC and Yukon courses or OPMT 0199 – Math for Business (67%) or OPMT 0198 – Business Math Assessment Test (67%)
Read more about how to meet BCIT’s entrance requirements
### Recommended for success
- We recommend that you attend an information session prior to applying to this program. Information sessions are held monthly, October through March. Applicants who live outside of the Greater Vancouver area will be accommodated.
- Strong mathematic skills are required for success in BCIT Business Diplomas. If you would like to upgrade your math skills, you should complete OPMT 0199 or OPMT 0023 .
- Applicants must have work, community, or volunteer experience.
### International applicants
This program is available to international applicants.
Study permit: A valid BCIT study permit is required prior to starting the program.
Students enrolled in this program must complete the mandatory work component to qualify for graduation.
Post-graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility : This program does not meet the eligible field of study requirement (CIP) and is therefore not eligible for students to apply for a PGWP.
( CIPC : 52.1001)
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another post-secondary school?
Transfer credit may be granted for courses completed at BCIT or another post-secondary institution where the learning outcomes duplicate those of the BCIT course. As per Admission Procedure 5003-PR1, the department reserves the right to determine the granting of credit where appropriate.
Transfer credits are only assessed once you have been accepted into the program.
Applications must be submitted 14 days prior to term start. An official transcript and a course outline where appropriate must be provided (or be on file with BCIT) to process the request. A maximum of two courses per level are eligible for credit through this process.
### Apply to program
To submit your application:
- Include proof of meeting all entrance requirements.
- Convert all transcripts and supporting documents to PDF files .
- Have a credit card ready to pay the application fee.
## Apply Now
Learn more about how to apply
### Scheduled Intakes
September each year.
### myCommunication
Within two business days of submitting your completed application, BCIT will send a message to your personal and myBCIT email addresses. All correspondence regarding your application will be posted to your online myCommunication account at my.bcit.ca . We will send you an email when a new message is posted. It is important to watch for these emails or regularly check your account online.
You can expect to receive communication concerning the status of your application within four weeks.
## Advanced Placement
### Conditions
You may be eligible to apply to an advanced level of the program through either re-admission or direct entry . Please note that applications are considered based on:
- Complete applications : you must show proof that you have completed (or are registered in) all requirements to be considered.
- Competitive entry : if the number of applicants exceeds available seats, BCIT will accept those deemed to have the best opportunity for success.
- Seat availability : confirmation may not be available until approximately one week before the term begins.
### Re-admission
You can apply for re-admission if you:
- were previously admitted to this program and completed part of it at BCIT and
- want to re-enter the program at an advanced level.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Submit the Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF] with your application.
Ready to submit your application? Apply now.
### Direct entry
Note: This program has replaced the Human Resource Management (Advanced Placement – Degree/Diploma entry) Diploma program. Please see below to apply for direct entry.
If you have previously completed a diploma or degree, see the additional options listed below.
You can apply for direct entry if you:
- are a new applicant to this program but already completed an equivalent part of it at BCIT or elsewhere and
- want to apply to an advanced level.
BCIT accepts complete applications starting:
- February 1st* for level 2 (January start)
- October 1st* for level 3 (September start)
There are four options for direct entry.
- Option 1: If you do not have a diploma or degree
Submit the following:
Step 1: Pre-entry assessment
Submit your completed pre-entry assessment form [PDF] to the Program Head for review. You may be requested to meet with the program area as part of the pre-assessment process. Once your pre-entry assessment form has been signed by the program area, you can upload it and submit your online application.
Step 2: Submit your application and meet the following entrance requirements
- Proof of meeting all general entrance requirements (excluding Math 11)
- Course-by-Course Self-Assessment Form [PDF] showing that you have completed all of the required courses for the level to which you are applying
Required courses
If you are applying to level 2 , you must show proof of completion of (or registration in) the level 1 courses (or equivalents) below. If you are applying to level 3 , you must show proof of completion of (or registration in) the level 1 and 2 courses (or equivalents) below.
Level 1 courses
Full-time | Course Name | Part-time Equivalent
BSYS 1000 | Business Information Systems | BSYS 1001
BUSA 2150 | Introduction to Organization Development | BUSA 2005
COMM 1100 | Business Communication 1 | COMM 1103 or COMM 1106
ECON 2200 | Macroeconomics | ECON 2200
OPMT 1100 | Intro to Operations Management | OPMT 1198
OPMT 1110 | Business Mathematics | OPMT 1110
Level 2 courses
Full-time | Course Name | Part-time Equivalent
BSYS 2000 | Applied Data Analytics in Excel | BSYS 2000
COMM 2200 | Business Communication 2 | COMM 2202 (or 2002) and COMM 2203 (or 2003)
ECON 2100 | Microeconomics | ECON 2100
FMGT 2151 | Accounting for Business Administration | FMGT 2152 or FMGT 1100 and FMGT 2100
HRMG 2150 | Intro to Human Resource Management | HRMG 3105
MKTG 1102 | Essentials of Marketing | MKTG 1102
OPMT 1130 | Business Statistics | OPMT 1197
OPMT 1170 | Project Management | OPMT 1187
- Option 2: Diploma or degree holders
Applications to level 3 only.
Submit the following with your online application:
Step 1: Pre-entry assessment
Submit your completed pre-entry assessment form [PDF] to the Program Head for review. You may be requested to meet with the program area as part of the pre-assessment process. Once your pre-entry assessment form has been signed by the program area, you can upload it and submit your online application.
Step 2: Submit your application and meet the following entrance requirements
- Proof of meeting all general entrance requirements (excluding Math 11)
- Proof of post-secondary education from a recognized institution with one of the following: Diploma Degree
If you are currently enrolled in the final term of your degree/diploma, you must be on track to complete it by May. To apply, submit the following documents from your post-secondary institution:
- Transcript of completed courses
- Confirmation of enrolment letter verifying your current course enrolment and registration in your final term
Applicants who have completed post-secondary studies outside of Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia or New Zealand will require a comprehensive evaluation of their credentials by the International Credential Evaluation Service (ICES) . Credential evaluation reports from other Canadian services may be considered. These reports must include course-by-course evaluations and GPA calculations.
Apply now .
- Option 3: Adult learners
If you are an adult learner, you may be eligible to complete an Advanced Placement and Prior Learning (APPL) assessment to qualify for direct entry to an advanced level of the program. Visit the SITE Centre to find out if you are eligible, and to learn more about the assessment process and associated fees.
Submit the following with your online application:
- Proof of meeting all general entrance requirements
- Approved Advanced Placement and Prior Learning (APPL) Assessment
Ready to submit your application? Apply now .
- Option 4: School of Business diploma program transfer
If you are currently in a full-time BCIT School of Business diploma program and wish to transfer:
- Print the School of Business Program Change form [PDF] .
- Make an appointment with the program heads to review your eligibility to transfer.
- If you are transferring to Level 3, you may be required to complete one or more bridging courses.
- Submit the following to BCIT Admissions : Approved School of Business Program Change form Completed Course-by-Course Self-Assessment form for your current program (found on your current program’s Advanced Placement page)
Do not apply online.
Note: When submitting your application through the EducationPlannerBC application portal, please select Direct Entry Applicant as your Admissions category to apply for an advanced level in this program. Please note that the New Applicant category is only for applicants to Level 1.
### Direct entry FAQs
- When should I apply?
- When will I be accepted?
- Can I take courses in advance to reduce my course load?
- When will I get my timetable?
- When can I buy my books?
To register for a Flexible Learning (Part-time Studies) course, visit Register for Flexible Learning Courses or contact Student Information and Enrolment Services .
Still have questions? Review the Admissions FAQ or contact Program Advising .
### Additional options
If you already have a diploma or degree, the following additional option is available to you:
Graduate Certificate in Business Administration
For students who have completed a bachelor’s degree, the BCIT Graduate Certificate in Business Administration is another viable option. This eight-month full-time program leads into a number of international MBA programs.
## Costs & Supplies
### Bring Your Own Device
Students are required to have their own laptop. Please refer to the Bring Your Own Device Specifications [PDF] for requirements.
Laptop costs vary depending on the configuration chosen, but will likely range from approximately $1,000 to $2,000.
### Tuition fees
Use our tuition estimator to find tuition and fees for this program.
For more information on full-time tuition and fees, visit:
- Full-Time Studies Tuition & Fees
- International Tuition & Fees
### Books & supplies
Level 1: $780; Level 2: $780; Level 3: $780; Level 4: $780 (General estimated cost, and subject to change)
### Financial assistance
Financial assistance may be available for this program. For more information, please contact Student Financial Aid and Awards .
## Courses
First and foremost – in the first year of the two-year program, you will learn the basics of business! Courses include Business Math, Economics, Accounting, Organizational Behaviour, and Business Information Systems as well as an introductory course in Human Resource Management. These courses are essential to your success as an HR Professional who works at the interface of people and business.
In the second year of the diploma, you will take more advanced business courses in Finance, Strategy, and Consulting skills and will focus on all functional areas of Human Resources including:
- Health and safety
- Compensation and benefits
- Training and development
- Recruitment and selection
- Human resource management systems
- Performance measurement
- HR planning and strategy
- Labour relations and conflict management
### Program matrix
Level 1 | Credits
BSYS 1000 | Business Information Systems ​​Computers and information technology are the foundation of business today. This course provides an understanding of computer terminology, operating systems, and the most popular office software used in business. Students learn to use spreadsheets (e.g. Microsoft Excel), word processing applications (e.g. Microsoft Word), and presentation and graphics programs (e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint). Students also get an introduction to cloud computing and enterprise collaboration tools. The course also provides an overview of digital literacy, Web-based collaboration, and publishing and productivity tools. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
BUSA 2150 | Introduction to Organizational Development ​Organizational behaviour and management principles study the factors necessary to build high performing teams and organizations. In this course students develop an understanding of how individual and team behaviours impact the effective operation of organizations. The concepts and frameworks discussed in this course form the building blocks of successful organizational development, leadership, and management. Key areas of learning include organizational culture, individual factors including personality, attitudes, perception, motivation, communication, and team dynamics. The course also includes organizational structure and design, decision making, an introduction to leadership development, and management functions including systems, controlling, planning, power and politics. Learning modalities include individual and group assignments, case studies, and an industry-based research project. Critical thinking is an outcome of the applied learning modalities. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
COMM 1100 | Business Communication 1 ​Employers identify excellent oral and written communication as one of the top skill requirements for jobs since business professionals spend time each day communicating with their supervisors, colleagues, and clients. As a result, this COMM 1100 course begins to address this by teaching students the specific core communication competencies that these employers seek. Founded in communication theory and concepts, students will have many opportunities to practice these communication competencies to help prepare them for a career in business. Students will build best practices in listening, writing, and speaking in a clear, concise, correct, coherent, complete, concrete and courteous way. Students will also critically analyze and address business cases to create effective messages, emails, letters, reports, conversations, and presentations. In addition, students learn about the interpersonal dimension of communication, which involves the relationship between people and place. This course also becomes the foundation for more advanced communication courses within the diploma program. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
ECON 2200 | Macroeconomics Presents a challenging overview of the workings of an economy. Stresses measurement and determination of national economic activity, the role of monetary and fiscal policy, and the understanding of inflation, unemployment and growth in an international environment. Prepares students to weigh political and economic issues as they relate to their business ventures. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
OPMT 1100 | Introduction to Operations Management ​​Operations management may be defined as the design, operation and improvement of the systems that create the firm's products or services. Demand for quality, time-based competition and international production has demonstrated the importance of operations management to the survival of the firm. This course will develop an appreciation for the nature and role of operations in a firm, and the strategic importance of operations to provide a competitive advantage in the marketplace. More specifically the course will examine operations strategy; quality management; product and service design; process and facilities planning, analysis and reengineering; Materials Management, and supply chain management. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
OPMT 1110 | Business Mathematics Reviews basic mathematics applicable to business and industry. Topics include consumer and commercial credit, simple and compound interest, financial instruments and discounting, annuities, mortgages, loans, sinking funds, leases, depreciation methods, capitalized costs, cash flow analysis, NPV and IRR. Emphasis is on maximum use of pre-programmed calculator and practical applications from the field of Financial Management. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
OPMT 1170 | Project Management ​This course introduces the fundamentals of project management including development approaches and activities and tools used at various stages of a project. The course covers the full project lifecycle and provides an opportunity to apply a range of management methods necessary to deliver value. Projects are unique and uncertain environments. Managing this uncertainty and tailoring the project approach is critical to a successful project. The course is consistent with the Project Management Body of Knowledge and the Standard for Project Management. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Level 2 | Credits
BSYS 2000 | Applied Data Analytics in Excel ​In an information-based society, every enterprise requires business analytics and decision support systems to enable a competitive advantage. As a result, knowledge workers across all industries increasingly require an understanding of data modelling and advanced data management and analytical techniques. Building off the foundational skills learned in BSYS-1000, this course leverages the Microsoft ecosystem, including Access, Excel and Power Query, Microsoft's data transformation and data preparation engine, to perform complex data management tasks. Advanced formulae, concepts, and data modelling theory will enable students to connect to various types of data to enable the analysis and presentation of data to enable business insight.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in BSYS 1000 or 50% in BSYS 1001 course outline | 4.0
COMM 2200 | Business Communication 2 ​To further prepare students' communication competencies, and build on the principles taught in COMM 1100, this course helps students to transition from the classroom to a career in business. Students will have the opportunity to actively engage in real-world, client-focused case studies and team projects that will help them build confidence and develop the professional communication skills required for the Canadian workplace. This course concentrates on more sophisticated forms of written and oral communication: field-specific career communication including interviewing techniques and documentation, indirect correspondence, persuasive presentations, and data-driven reports. Students may also prepare visual communication, create questionnaires, organize and run in-person and virtual meetings, use digital collaboration platforms, and use AI-assisted communication. Prerequisite(s): 50% in COMM 1100 course outline | 4.0
ECON 2100 | Microeconomics This course investigates economic analysis, focusing on fundamentals of markets, supply and demand, consumer and producer behaviour, and monopoly and competition. Optional areas of business application may explore labour markets, government intervention and environmental regulation. Prepares students to identify and evaluate the economic considerations they will undoubtedly encounter in business. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
FMGT 2151 | Accounting for Business Administration ​This course focuses on the context of accounting and the use of accounting information for decision making, planning, and control. It will examine how managers can utilize the tools of economics, accounting/finance, and decision theory to aid in these critical decisions. The course will consider how differences and changes in the internal operating conditions can affect a manager's resource allocation decisions. Topics include worksheet accounting, short-run decision-making and financial analysis.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
HRMG 2250 | Human Resource Management Framework ​This course introduces the Human Resource Management Framework and the complex web of rules, statutes, and regulations that impact the employer-employee relationship. It provides a comprehensive understanding of the framework's purpose and critical components, illustrating the role each plays in managing human resources effectively. It also highlights foundational human resource management concepts, the employee life cycle, the line-staff relationship, and the importance of the human resource management function's stakeholders in helping students prepare for their careers. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
MKTG 1102 | Essentials of Marketing Marketing 1102 is an introduction to the fundamentals of marketing. In addition to the "four Ps" of marketing—product, price, place, and promotion—students will be introduced to how marketers create customer-driven marketing strategies based on their research and understanding of the marketing environment and customers. Students will plan a strategy for and compete in an online marketing simulation. After the simulation, students will evaluate their performance and deliver a marketing plan for their simulation company, which will be assessed on students' application of marketing terminology and processes and in the professionalism of their work. Additionally, students will complete assignments, quizzes, and exams. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
OPMT 1120 | Statistics for Business ​Includes descriptive statistics, including numerical and graphical presentation of data, measures of central tendency, dispersion and elementary probabilities. Introduction to several discrete and continuous probability distributions. Introduction to inferential statistics through selected topics such as sampling, confidence limits of the mean, hypotheses testing, and the chi-squared test for independence.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.5
Level 3 | Credits
BLAW 3800 | Human Resource Management Law The course provides an essential understanding of the Canadian statutory framework in general, emphasizing the law applicable to employment relationships in British Columbia. The intricate interface between various statutes and common law principles is explained against the backdrop of the employment contract as the foundation of a non-unionized working environment. Students are introduced to specialized areas of employment law such as human rights, privacy at work, minimum standards and related rights, and occupational health and safety, focusing on statutory compliance and the associated legal implications of non-compliance. Statutory principles that permeate various stages of individual employment relationships in British Columbia, i.e., the hiring process, reciprocal rights and obligations of employers and employees during the employment relationship, termination of employment, and post-employment obligations, are discussed in detail as to assist students to act within the parameters of governing legislation and appreciate the practical application of salient legal principles via examples from case law. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
FMGT 3560 | Finance 1 - Administration Allows those with little or no knowledge of financial management to study the various methods of optimizing the economic position of a firm. Middle management people in business finance will learn to make the best decisions on the financing of a firm. Topics include control and financial management of the business firm, profit and cash-planning, the cost of capital and working capital management. Prerequisite(s): FMGT 1152 or FMGT 2100 or FMGT 2152 course outline | 4.0
HRMG 3250 | Labour Relations and the Collective Bargaining Cycle This course provides an in-depth study of union-employer relations and the collective bargaining process and equips students with the knowledge and skills to manage unionized workplaces effectively. It examines how unions, as employee representatives, and employers interact to establish terms and conditions of employment, focusing on the negotiation, agreement, and administration of these terms. By exploring the origins, nature, and evolving dynamics of union-employer relationships, students will gain practical insights into strategic approaches for managing unionized settings. Emphasizing legal frameworks, analytical tools, and inclusive practices, the course prepares students to navigate labour relations complexities, manage effectively within unionized workplaces, and develop strategies that support organizational success. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
HRMG 3350 | Talent Acquisition and Onboarding ​This course builds upon foundational Human Resources principles and provides students with the knowledge and practical skills for managing the end-to-end recruitment and onboarding process. Students will learn to align hiring strategies with business needs, use relevant sourcing techniques, conduct effective interviews, and ensure a positive candidate experience. This course also covers legal considerations, diversity/equity/inclusion (DEI) factors in creating a diverse workforce, modern recruitment tools, and the critical role of talent acquisition professionals and hiring managers in onboarding. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
HRMG 3550 | Employee Development ​This course provides students with theories and practices related to training and development, and its impact on employee engagement and retention, emphasizing their critical role in business success. Students will learn key elements and principles related to adult learning, pedagogy, evaluation and development planning that align with individual aspirations and organizational needs. Students will also review key employee belonging and engagement practices, including survey design and applying best practices to translate insights into actionable strategies. Additionally, students will explore the use of AI in engagement and training initiatives and understand the vital role of HR in fostering a culture that supports both employee growth and organizational objectives.​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
HRMG 4200 | Employment Relationships and Conflict Management This course equips students with skills to navigate diverse workplace environments, build relationships, and manage conflicts. It focuses on employment relationships and emphasizes a practitioner’s ability to influence, manage change, inspire individuals, and collaborate toward shared goals. Key concepts include work context, conflict inevitability, and negotiation as the primary interpersonal decision-making process. Students will explore frameworks for understanding employment dynamics, learn negotiation techniques, and develop strategies for collaboration, conflict resolution and reconciliation. Prerequisite(s): HRMG 2150 course outline | 3.0
HRMG 4650 | Strategic Human Resources Partnership This course introduces the strategic perspective in human resource management and equips students with essential strategic thinking, executive advising, and human resource advocacy skills. HR strategic partnership is a proactive, business-aligned approach where HR professionals work collaboratively with leadership to drive organizational success. Rather than focusing solely on administrative tasks, HR is a key business partner, integrating people strategies with corporate objectives. Students will learn to develop and implement strategic initiatives, build business cases, and align people strategies with business goals. The course also emphasizes practical applications such as succession planning and organizational design. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Level 4 | Credits
BUSA 3515 | Management Science This course emphasizes the use of decision-making models in business. It educates students in the use of quantitative methods in the choice of alternatives in the decision-making process. Computers will be used to solve problems. Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 4.0
BUSA 4800 | Management Policy Analyses business strategy formulation to give the student practical experience and confidence in handling complex business situations. Comprehensive business cases will be selected in fields such as finance, control, personnel, production, marketing, and general management. Acquaints the student with management decision-making and effective verbal and written business analysis. Teamwork and organizational change are addressed as elements of strategy implementation. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BUSA 2005 or 50% in BUSA 2100 Departmental approval needed to register in this course. Course registration is restricted to students that have completed a minimum of 30 credits of coursework in business programs and completed BUSA 2005 or 50% in BUSA 2100 or 50% in BUSA 2150. To be considered for registration approval, please email the Business Administration Part Studies Program Assistant at Kim_Petkov@bcit.ca **Full-time day school students in the School of Business may not enroll in this course without the express consent of their day school Program Head.** course outline | 4.0
HRMG 4250 | High-Performance Culture ​This course equips students with important frameworks and essential skills to drive organizational performance by understanding the business and focusing on the organization's feedback systems, processes, and coaching to clarify and influence people and behaviours. Students will learn to develop effective performance management systems, including goal setting, competency-based appraisals, and development plans. To drive individual performance within these systems, human resources leaders must influence stakeholders, coach managers and employees, and provide critical feedback supporting organizational goals. The course covers the basics of coaching, performance feedback, effective disciplinary conversations and documentation.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in HRMG 3350 and 50% in HRMG 4350 and 50% in HRMG 4650 course outline | 3.0
HRMG 4450 | Total Rewards ​This course explains how organizations should design and implement compensation and benefits strategies that align with business objectives, the competitive landscape, and talent management goals. Students will explore the various components of total rewards, including compensation structures, benefits programs, types of equity programs, and retirement plans. Students will develop skills to build a benefits strategy, including negotiating with benefits vendors and best practices in communicating these programs to employees. The course covers the role of internal equity, external competitiveness, legal compliance and DEI programs in crafting effective total compensation programs. ​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in HRMG 4650 course outline | 4.0
HRMG 4500 | People Analytics and Technology ​This course introduces people analytics, artificial intelligence (AI) tools and human resources technology as a strategic advantage in HR management, equipping students with the skills to harness data and technological tools for strategic HR partnership. The focus extends to the broader landscape of HR technology and its application in data-driven decision-making. Students will learn to identify their organization's right human resources information system (HRIS), assess relevant AI tools, generate insightful reports, and leverage analytics to drive organizational success. Emphasis will be placed on understanding key metrics, predictive analytics, and the latest HR technology trends to prepare future strategic HR professionals.​ Prerequisite(s): 50% in HRMG 4650 course outline | 3.0
HRMG 4700 | Applied Change Management Workshop This course equips students with the knowledge and skills to strategically navigate and lead organizational change initiatives. Recognizing change management as a core leadership responsibility, students will approach change as an integral part of management rather than a separate or secondary task. The course addresses various types of change—including modification, transformation, and transition—and emphasizes their role in driving organizations toward improved structures, performance, and sustainable success. Focusing on purposeful, systematic transitions, students will gain insights into assessing organizational needs, reallocating resources, and fostering the cultural and behavioural shifts crucial for sustainable change. Additionally, students will explore tools and frameworks that enhance organizational capacity and strategic alignment, ensuring impactful and measurable change initiatives. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BLAW 3800 and 50% in HRMG 3250 and 50% in HRMG 3350 and 50% in HRMG 4200 and 50% in HRMG 4650 course outline | 2.0
HRMG 4800 | Transformational Human Resources Skills Workshop This seminar-style course builds on the concepts and frameworks established in HRMG 4200. It focuses on applying human resource principles in complex and sensitive situations. Using situational judgment—assessing, evaluating, and navigating specific circumstances—prepares students to make ethical, informed, and well-reasoned decisions. Through real-world case studies, including managing organizational change, facilitating accommodations, negotiating terms and conditions in unionized settings, resolving workplace disputes, and conducting sensitive conversations, students engage in an environment designed to refine critical thinking, problem-solving, communication, and adaptability—essential skills for tackling today’s complex workplace challenges. This course equips students with practical and adaptable human resource competencies, enabling them to navigate real-world challenges confidently. Prerequisite(s): 50% in BLAW 3800 and 50% in HRMG 3250 and 50% in HRMG 3350 and 50% in HRMG 3550 and 50% in HRMG 4200 and 50% in HRMG 4250 and 50% in HRMG 4500 and 50% in HRMG 4650 and 50% in OCHS 3001 course outline | 1.5
HRMG 4900 | Business Consulting Projects This course gives students practical experience in completing a significant human resource assignment in an organizational setting. The project typically relates to a specific client company and is carried out under the guidance of assigned faculty members. Prerequisite(s): BLAW 3800 and HRMG 3250 and HRMG 3350 and HRMG 3550 and HRMG 4200 and HRMG 4650 and HRMG 4700 HRMG 4250 ‡ and HRMG 4450 ‡ and HRMG 4500 ‡ and OCHS 3001 ‡ ( ‡ must be taken concurrently) course outline | 10.0
OCHS 3001 | Workplace Health, Safety, and Wellness ​This course covers the essential components of an occupational health and safety management system for organizations. Students will examine the legislative landscape, regulations, and standards and understand the frameworks needed to implement and manage effective health, safety, and wellness strategies and programs in the workplace. The course will emphasize strategic thinking, analytics, and contemporary practices and introduce reporting requirements of the various federal and provincial regulators – Work Safe BC. Students will learn practices that encourage wellness, prevention and education to sustain employee and organizational health. ​ Prerequisite(s): No prerequisites are required for this course. course outline | 3.0
Total Credits: | 107.5
### Transfer credit
Do you have credits from another BC/Yukon post-secondary school? Do you want to know if they transfer to courses here at BCIT? Check out BCIT's Transfer Equivalency Database to find out.
## Program Details
The BCIT Diploma in Strategic Human Resources Management program places you in a small cohort of 25 to 27 students. Each term you are assigned to an even smaller cohort team with whom you complete major assignments for the term. Your studies will involve learning from lectures, interactive labs, and each other. The focus is on the practical application of knowledge. You will work directly with industry on several projects and assignments.
Effective teamwork skills are very important to your success in the program. Most of your projects will be team oriented and at the end of your final year you will work with a small team on a Human Resource consulting project with an industry client. You will work on industry-based projects, research best practices, and focus on managing an HR change process with an external organization.
You will have the opportunity to join BCIT’s Human Resource Association (HRA) – a student-run club for aspiring HR professionals that provides networking opportunities, assistance in preparing for the CPHR exam, mentors, and organizes social events.
Our graduates go on to successfully complete the requirements of the CPHR , become HR consultants, HR Coordinators, specialists in training, benefits, and compensation, and leaders in the HR community.
### Program length
Two years, full-time (9 months for students entering with a degree or diploma directly into the second year of the program).
### Grading
In order to be eligible to progress into the second year of the Strategic Human Resources Management program, students must achieve a 72% overall GPA on their first-year courses.
### Program delivery
In person: This program is delivered on campus.
### Program location
Burnaby Campus 3700 Willingdon Avenue Burnaby, BC
### Continue your education
Graduates of this program may continue their studies to complete the BCIT Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) program. The BBA program provides you with the flexibility to complete your degree full-time in an accelerated format (depending on previous transfer credits from other institutes), or you can choose to begin your career and finish your degree courses part-time, usually within 2 to 3 years. Completion of the BBA meets the degree requirement to obtain your CHRP designation.
Block credits from your diploma may also be transferred to business degrees at Simon Fraser University, the University of Northern British Columbia, Royal Roads University, Lakehead University and others. Please confirm details with the respective program that you are considering if this option is of interest.
## Graduating & Jobs
BCIT and the Chartered Professional in Human Resources (CPHR) signed an agreement to allow some graduates of the BCIT Human Resources Management Diploma program to be exempt from writing the National Knowledge Exam (NKE). In order to qualify for the NKE exemption, you will need to meet the following conditions:
- Have a graduation date of May 2013 or later.
- Have graduated with a cumulative GPA of 70% or higher.
- Be a member of CPHR in good standing. You may join CPHR now, or at the time that you apply for the exemption, if you are not already a member.
- Pay the exemption fee.
If you need more information or would like to apply for exemption from the NKE, email the CPHR .
### Testimonials
“I received a solid education from my university degree, but I realized I had no specific job-ready skills or a career focus. The BCIT Human Resources post-diploma program was the perfect program for me to narrow down my career goals while giving me broad exposure to the world of business through the intensive and challenging curriculum.” Scarlett Yim, Consultant, BC Hydro
“One reason I love BCIT is that there is so much support and so many resources for students. I’m really enjoying the program so far, our class is fantastic, we have so much fun and help each other as much as we can.” Asa Nerelius
“All the classes that I attended were amazing, interactive, interesting, and fun, and instilled me with the desire to continue learning. It is due to the BCIT education that I have received that I was able to confidently apply for jobs in the HR field.” Tanvi Ahuja
### Graduate employment outcomes
The BCIT student outcomes report presents summary findings from the annual survey of former students administered by BC Stats one to two years after graduation. These reports combine the last three years of available results for the 2023-2025 BCIT Outcomes Surveys of 2022-2024 graduates and for Degree 2020-2022 graduates. The reports are organized into three-page summaries containing information on graduates’ labour market experiences and opinions regarding their education. More detailed information can be accessed at the BC Student Outcomes website.
To view these results, you may need to have the Adobe Acrobat Reader installed in your Web browser.
- Strategic Human Resources Management
## Faculty, Advisors & Staff
The most important learning will come from your interaction with your colleagues in the class and as you work together on assignments. The faculty who will support this learning have worked in the HR profession as managers and/or consultants and are skilled in many areas, including Labour Relations, Training and Development, Compensation and Benefits, and Recruiting and Selection.
### Advisory committee
Kelly Cardwell, Human Resources Consultant
Kelly Cardwell is a Human Resources executive with over 25 years of experience aligning people strategies with organizational goals across various industries. Previously, she held senior HR roles at NexGen Energy, Bosa Family Companies, Best Buy Canada, and Finning International, leading transformative initiatives in talent acquisition, employee engagement, and HR innovation.
In addition to her corporate leadership, Kelly shares her expertise as an instructor at Simon Fraser University’s Beedie School of Business, teaching courses in personal and business development. She holds an MBA from Simon Fraser University and an MA in Industrial & Organizational Psychology from Adler University. She is a Certified Professional in Human Resources (CPHR) and holds additional certifications in compensation, employee benefits, and emotional intelligence.
An active community leader, Kelly serves on the boards of WITS and BCIT’s HR Program Advisory Committee and chairs the Parent Advisory Committee at Banting Middle School. Her expertise and leadership continue to empower individuals and drive organizational success.
Diana Lerner, Manager, People & Culture, Inspired Cannabis Co.
Diana Lerner is a seasoned HR professional with experience in people and culture roles across various sectors. Currently serving as the People and Culture Manager at Inspired Cannabis Co., Diana brings a wealth of knowledge in human resources management, organizational culture, and employee development. Her prior experience includes key positions such as Senior Manager of People & Culture and People and Culture Advisor at Connective, where she contributed to strategic HR initiatives, labour relations, talent management, and workplace culture. Diana also held roles at Canopy Growth Corporation and Ledcor, where she developed her expertise in HR operations, employee relations, and performance management. She holds a background in business studies from BCIT, equipping her with a solid foundation in HR principles and practices.
Rebecca McCall, Director of HR, Prelude
Rebecca’s career in HR has focused on developing strategic initiatives within the fast-paced tech sector. Currently, she’s the Director of HR at an innovative cybersecurity company, where she is building a scalable HR function to support rapid organisational growth. With a background that spans both emerging startups and large-scale global organisations, she brings a strategic, adaptable approach to aligning people strategies with business needs.
Rebecca earned a degree in Psychology from the University of British Columbia (UBC), followed by a diploma in HR Management at the British Columbia Institute of Technology (BCIT), and later achieved her CPHR designation.
Sarah Steinke, Director, People and Culture, Ballard Power Systems Inc.
Sarah, a proud BCIT alumna, brings over 20 years of HR experience in progressively senior roles across multiple industries. She has a proven track record in HR strategy, leadership development, and driving organizational transformation. As a Certified Human Resources Professional (CPHR), Sarah is dedicated to aligning people strategies with business goals, demonstrating her passion for both people and organizational success.
Grant Tufts, Vice President, Human Resources, UPTIME Industrial
Grant is an accomplished Human Resources professional with diverse experience as both an entrepreneur, and an HR Leader in Real Estate, Construction, and Industrial Services. He began his HR career in professional services and went on to co-found and manage one of the largest independently owned recruitment firms in Canada. Grant transitioned to an internal role with Bosa Family Companies in 2018 and is now leading the HR function at Uptime Industrial, where he also oversees Administration, Business Development, and Safety. Grant is an SFU Alumni, as well as an ICF Certified Executive Coach.
## Business Consulting Project
A BCIT Business Consulting Project provides second-year Strategic Human Resources Management students with the opportunity to work over a 10-week period with an organization to solve a human resource problem or challenge. Students work in a team of two or three to improve human resource functions and systems for an industry client. Students complete a comprehensive written report and make an oral presentation to the client outlining their recommendations and solutions.
Business Consulting Projects are different from traditional co-op and internship programs. Students are not assigned to actual positions, but rather fill a consulting role for businesses and organizations. Each project has a BCIT faculty member that serves as an advisor for the student consulting team and a mentor or project champion who works for the client organization. Exit surveys from participating companies show that the completed strategic business solutions have a value that far surpassed their expectations.
View a sample list of past Business Consulting Projects students have completed in a wide variety of industries. Employers can submit a Business Consulting project proposal .
## Contact Us
Alisha Cabrera Administrative Assistant 604-432-8385 | alisha_cabrera@bcit.ca
David Berrington Program Head, Strategic Human Resources Management 604-432-8210 | david_berrington@bcit.ca
Contact a Program Advisor with the BCIT program name in the subject line if you have a question about:
- Program selection and program planning
- Applying for transfer credit and advanced placement
- Job placement and graduate outcomes
- Student life
### Questions or comments?
## Subscribe
Sign up to receive updates, invitations to events, and information about BCIT and your program.
We promise not to spam you, we won’t share your personal information, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Programs and courses are subject to change without notice.
